Table of Contents Table of Contents Echo, Fire TV, and Kindle deals Apple deals TV deals Laptop deals Headphone and earbud deals Tablet deals Gaming deals Speaker deals Vacuum deals Kitchen deals Smart home deals Fitness deals Beauty tech deals Drone deals Camera deals Lego deals Gift card deals

UPDATE: Nov. 27, 2023, 5:00 a.m. EST This post has been updated with all of the latest Cyber Monday deals available at Amazon.

Amazon is dragging out the year's biggest shopping holiday(s) into 11 days of deals.

The retail giant began its Black Friday sale in the early morning of Friday, Nov. 17 (a week ahead of schedule) and was on top of making the switch to Cyber Monday language in the wee hours of Saturday, Nov. 25. Official Cyber Monday mode, which is currently on through Monday, Nov. 27, includes both a ton of deals carried over from Black Friday plus some new ones.

We're curating a running list of Amazon's best Cyber Weekend deals, spotlighting some of our favorites and noting when good deals inevitably sell out. Read on for the full rundown, and check back often: We're going to be updating this story incessantly as the sale continues, as well as our even bigger (if you can imagine) list of Cyber Monday deals across more retailers.

Note: All newly added deals are marked with a ✨, while deals with a 🔥 have dropped to an all-time low price. Amazon's invite-only deals for Prime members are marked with a 📨. Deals with a strikeout were either sold out or expired at the time of writing.

Echo, Fire TV, and Kindle deals

Why we like it

An Echo Show is a subtle yet game-changing addition to any room — and for less than $40 with this rollover Black Friday to Cyber Monday deal, there's little reason to not make your life easier. The smart screen responds to Alexa commands that are particularly handy when your hands are full, like asking for measurement conversions mid-cooking, checking the weather mid-rushing out the door, or turning off your smart lights with a sleeping kid in hand. Plus, it's got a 5.5-inch screen and better sound than its predecessor, making it perfect for watching videos or video calling friends and family.

More Amazon device and service deals

Amazon services

Audible Premium Plus — $5.95/month $14.95/month for four months (save $9/month; new customers only; get an additional $20 Audible credit)

Echo Buds

Echo smart displays

Echo smart speakers

Fire tablets

Fire TVs

Note: All Fire TVs come with a free 6-month subscription to MGM+ (a $35.94 value).

Fire TV streaming devices

eero

Kindles

Miscellaneous Amazon devices

Apple deals

Why we like it

Now that the 64GB 9th generation iPad has been going in and out of stock (you might be able to find it on sale for $229.99), our new favorite iPad deal at Amazon is the 10th generation 64GB model for $349. Compared to the 9th gen, the 10th gen classic iPad has a slightly bigger screen that's now also a Liquid Retina display (10.9 inches versus 10.2 inches), a faster A14 Bionic chip for smoother multitasking, and USB-C charging.

More Apple deals

AirPods

MacBook

Mac

iPad

Apple Watch

TV deals

Why we like it

This 65-inch Fire TV from Amazon hit its lowest ever price this month, and we're not mad about it. With a 66 percent five-star review rating, it's got much to love: Including stunning 4K QLED resolution, adaptive brightness that adjusts to the lighting of your room, the ability to project famous art or personal pics on it when not streaming anything, and, of course, that quintessential Alexa voice control.

More TV deals

43 to 55 inches

65 inches

75 to 85 inches

Laptop deals

Why we like it

MacBooks aside (which are all listed above in the Apple section), another stellar Cyber Monday laptop deal at Amazon is the lightweight Microsoft Surface Laptop Go 3 for $599.99. This 25% discount drops the 2023 version to the regular asking price of our favorite budget laptop, the older Surface Go 2. Compared to the Go 2, the Go 3's Intel Core i5 processor is 12th gen versus the Go 2's 11th gen, harnessing better speeds and solid power for most everyday work or school tasks. On the outside, the Go 3 is definitely giving MacBook Air — the main difference being that the Go 3's screen is a touchscreen.

More laptop deals

Traditional laptops

2-in-1 laptops

Chromebooks

Gaming laptops

Headphone and earbud deals

Why we like it

Narrowing down a headphones upgrade from so many on-sale options is less overwhelming when you've confirmed that you want to stick with a super premium, super reputable brand like Bose — but also that you want to stick to a budget. There's only one pair of Bose over-ear headphones you can grab for just under $200, and that's the QuietComfort 45s at a record-low price of $199. This classic pair secures top-of-the-line ANC, 20 hours of battery life, and all-day comfort for less than half of the AirPods Max's sale price.

More headphone and earbud deals

Headphones

Earbuds

Tablet deals

Gaming deals

Gaming headsets

Mashable Deals Want more hand-picked deals in your inbox? Sign up for Mashable's daily Deals newsletter. Loading... Sign Me Up By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Thanks for signing up!

Gaming mice

Gaming keyboards

VR headsets

Meta Quest 2 — $249 $299.99 (save $50.99) + free $50 Amazon credit with code META50 🔥

Speaker deals

Vacuum deals

Cordless vacuums

Robot vacuums and vacuum/mop hybrids

Kitchen deals

Pizza ovens

Sparkling water makers

Toaster ovens

Smart home deals

Note: Echo devices are listed above under "Amazon device and service deals."

Blink

Chromecast

Google Nest

Fitness deals

Smartwatches and fitness trackers

Note: Apple Watches are listed above under "Apple deals."

Beauty tech deals

Drone deals

Camera deals

GoPro

Lego deals

Gift card deals ETF provider Betashares, which manages $30 billion in funds, reached an agreement to acquire Bendigo and Adelaide Bank’s superannuation business, in its first venture into the superannuation sector. Betashares said it was part of a longer-term strategy to expand the business into the broader financial sector. Shares in Bendigo increased 0.6 per cent on the news. REITS (up 0.4 per cent) was the strongest sector on the index as Goodman added 0.5 per cent and Dexus climbed 2.8 per cent. The laggards Casino operator Star Entertainment Group’s shares hit an all-time low of 60¢ after it raised $565 million. They closed the session 16 per cent weaker at 63¢. Star, which raised $800 million in February, has had to return to the market for fresh funding and is hoping to raise $750 million at a share price of 60¢ a share.

Meanwhile, healthcare heavyweight CSL shed 1.4 per cent, weighing down the healthcare sector and insurance companies IAG (down 2.6 per cent) and Suncorp (down 2 per cent) gave back some of their gains from Tuesday. Gold miners Newcrest (down 2.1 per cent) and Evolution (down 3.5 per cent) were also among the biggest large-cap decliners after the spot gold price dropped 0.9 per cent overnight. Information technology (down 1.1 per cent) was the weakest sector on the local bourse with WiseTech losing 1.4 per cent. The lowdown

Novus Capital senior client adviser Gary Glover said the Australian sharemarket was surprisingly resilient following a negative lead from Wall Street and the latest inflation data, with markets starting to wake up to the fact that interest rates could stay higher for longer. “Considering the damage overnight in the US, Australian markets held on pretty well,” he said. “I thought it would be a bigger down day across the board.” Glover said the market was volatile but quite range-bound, similar to previous periods of high inflation in the 1940s and 1970s. Elsewhere, Wall Street’s ugly September got even worse on Tuesday, as a sharp drop for stocks brought them back to where they were in June. The S&P 500 tumbled 1.5 per cent for its fifth loss in the last six days. The Dow Jones dropped 1.1 per cent, and the Nasdaq composite lost 1.6 per cent.

Loading September has brought a loss of 5.2 per cent so far for the S&P 500, putting it on track to be the worst month of the year by far, as the realisation sets in that the Federal Reserve will indeed keep interest rates high for a long time. That growing understanding has sent yields in the bond market to their highest levels in more than a decade, which in turn has undercut prices for stocks and other investments. Treasury yields rose again on Tuesday following a mixed batch of reports on the economy. The yield on the 10-year Treasury edged up to 4.55 per cent from 4.54 per cent late on Monday and is near its highest level since 2007. It’s up sharply from about 3.5 per cent in May and from 0.5 per cent about three years ago. One economic report on Tuesday showed confidence among consumers was weaker than economists expected. That’s concerning because strong spending by US households has been a bulwark keeping the economy out of a long-predicted recession.

Besides high interest rates, a long list of other worries is also tugging at Wall Street. The most immediate is the threat of another US government shutdown as Capitol Hill threatens a stalemate that could shut off federal services across the country. Loading Wall Street has dealt with such shutdowns in the past, and stocks have historically been turbulent in the run-up to them, according to Lori Calvasina, strategist at RBC Capital Markets. After looking at the seven shutdowns that lasted 10 days or more since the 1970s, she found the S&P 500 dropped an average of roughly 10 per cent in the three months heading into them. But stocks managed to hold up rather well during the shutdowns, falling an average of just 0.3 per cent, before rebounding meaningfully afterward. Wall Street is also contending with higher oil prices, shaky economies around the world, a strike by US autoworkers that could put more upward pressure on inflation and a resumption of US student-loan repayments that could dent spending by households.

On Wall Street, the vast majority of stocks fell under such pressures, including 90 per cent of those within the S&P 500. Big Tech stocks tend to be among the hardest hit by high rates, and they were the heaviest weights on the index. Apple fell 2.3 per cent and Microsoft lost 1.7 per cent. Amazon tumbled 4 per cent after the Federal Trade Commission and 17 state attorneys general filed an antitrust lawsuit against it. They accuse the e-commerce behemoth of using its dominant position to inflate prices on other platforms, overcharge sellers and stifle competition. In China, concerns continued over heavily indebted real estate developer Evergrande. The property market crisis there is dragging on China’s economic growth and raising worries about financial instability. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.7 per cent, and Germany’s DAX lost 1 per cent.

Crude oil prices rose, adding to worries about inflation. A barrel of benchmark US crude climbed 71¢ to $US90.39. Brent crude, the international standard, added 67¢ to $US93.96 per barrel. Tweet of the day Quote of the day “The Senate committees have the power to summons witnesses within Australia but have no enforceable powers for witnesses who are overseas,” said Senator Bridget McKenzie as former Qantas boss Alan Joyce chose not to front the Senate select committee into the federal government’s decision to reject extra flights from Qatar Airways due to “personal commitments”. A worker sorts out parcels in the outbound dock at the Amazon fulfillment center in Eastvale, California, on Aug. 31, 2021. Watchara Phomicinda | MediaNews Group | The Riverside Press-Enterprise via Getty Images

It was late in the day on Oct. 27, 2021, when Fred Ruckel received the dreaded automated email from Amazon . Amazon’s software had detected that Ruckel’s popular cat toy, called the Ripple Rug, was being sold somewhere else for a cheaper price. His product would no longer be shown in Amazon’s all-important buy box, an area of the listing where shoppers click “Add to Cart.” Ruckel is the sole seller of the Ripple Rug on Amazon, so the move all but ensured his product would disappear from the website, costing him thousands of dollars per day. “Below is a list of product(s) in your catalog that are not currently eligible to be the Featured Offer because they are not priced competitively compared to prices for those products from retailers outside Amazon,” according to the email, which was viewed by CNBC. Unbeknownst to him, Chewy was running a discount promotion, and dropped the price of his product by a few dollars to $39.99 – less than the $43 offer on Amazon. The algorithm had flagged it as a lower offer, even though the item on Chewy cost $48.54 after shipping and taxes. Ruckel had to make a choice: Lower the price on Amazon or ask Chewy to raise the price of his product. He opted for the latter.

Fred Ruckel's company Snuggly Cat makes Ripple Rug, an interactive play mat for cats. Fred Ruckel

Nearly three years later, Ruckel’s experience hits at the core of a sweeping antitrust lawsuit filed last week by the Federal Trade Commission against Amazon. The agency accused Amazon of wielding its monopoly power to squeeze merchants and thwart rivals. For consumers, that’s led to artificially inflated prices and a degraded shopping experience, the agency alleges. In the 172-page suit, the FTC said Amazon relies on an “anti-discounting strategy” and a “massive web-crawling apparatus that constantly tracks online prices” to stifle competition. The agency said Amazon punishes third-party sellers who offer cheaper products elsewhere by threatening to disqualify them from appearing in the buy box if it detects a lower price. Losing the buy box is an “existential threat” to sellers’ businesses, the complaint alleges. The end result of these tactics, the FTC argues, is elevated prices across the web. The company steadily hikes the fees it charges sellers and prevents them from discounting on other sites, so sellers often inflate their prices off of Amazon, creating an “artificial price floor everywhere,” according to the complaint. The FTC is seeking to hold Amazon liable for allegedly violating anti-monopoly law, though it has not yet outlined the specific remedies it believes would best resolve its concerns. In antitrust cases, remedies are often determined only after a court finds the defendant liable. In a blog post, Amazon general counsel David Zapolsky said third-party sellers set their own prices on the marketplace. The company also invests in tools to help sellers offer “competitive prices,” he said. “Even with those tools, some of the businesses selling on Amazon might still choose to set prices that aren’t competitive,” Zapolsky said. “Just like any store owner who wouldn’t want to promote a bad deal to their customers, we don’t highlight or promote offers that are not competitively priced.” Zapolsky argued the FTC’s lawsuit could force it to stop highlighting low prices, “a perverse result that would be directly opposed to the goals of antitrust law.”

“Long overdue” lawsuit

On Amazon’s own forum for merchants, called Seller Central, several users cheered on the FTC and said they hoped it would result in changes to the company’s business practices. Amazon’s tense relationship with merchants has been well-chronicled over the years, with sellers expressing a range of grievances over issues like rising fees, an arcane suspensions process, and heightened competition on the marketplace from all sides, including the e-commerce giant. “I think it’s great, Amazon deserves it,” one person commented, adding, “More should be coming on the way.” Amazon in recent years made the forum anonymous, but users must have a seller account in order to post. Another post included a screenshot of a message Amazon sent to sellers the day after the FTC filed its complaint, which said, “As your partners, we know that this news may generate questions for you and our business together. This lawsuit does not change anything about our relationship with you or how we operate today.” One user called it “BS verbiage,” adding, “Businesses that sell in their store are indeed customers. And which of us has gotten good customer service?” Another user described their experience in the last 12 months of selling on Amazon as “being up all night at an effing casino but I'm stuck, the drugs are starting to wear off, but I'm trying to break even on the mortgage payment I'm using to play. That's how it is selling on Amazon right now to me.” The seller went on to describe the experience as a “race to the bottom.” “It's long overdue," another commenter wrote. "When they close me down, I'm applying for a job with the FTC.” Still, others commented that the FTC’s complaint is misguided. “Selling on Amazon is a life-changing opportunity and the amount of sellers that throw stones at the platform is astounding,” one user wrote.

Seller skepticism

Even sellers who may be sympathetic to the idea of regulating Amazon have concerns, specifically that the FTC's highlighted issues aren't necessarily ones that would make the seller and consumer experience better. Scott Needham, who sells on Amazon and runs a product-finder tool for other Amazon sellers, said he was “surprised by some of the points that the FTC selected.”

watch now

“I have over the years been very critical of Amazon,” Needham told CNBC. “I’ve lost a lot of sleep because of some of the things that they have done. And the issues that they brought up, while they are interesting, they haven’t created me a lot of pain.” Needham said he was particularly puzzled by the inclusion of the claims that Amazon is coercive in the way it encourages sellers to use its fulfillment service, known as Fulfillment by Amazon, or FBA. Needham said many sellers “love FBA” because of its compelling value in terms of the price and promise to deliver two-day shipping. For many, using FBA doesn’t feel like a requirement, but they believe using it will make their businesses "easier and more effective." "I think that the power that Amazon wields over sellers is considerable and absolutely worth looking into,” Needham said. “But I’m not sure if this would actually change that.” Scott Moller, an Amazon seller and co-founder of an agency that helps merchants run their storefronts, said the e-commerce giant has removed some of the challenges that used to be part of running an online business. With FBA, he said, he can ship an item into one of Amazon’s warehouses for $7.49 per package, while shipping it himself through a traditional carrier would cost him about $12. “I don’t have to have my own warehouse,” said Moller, who sells grilling accessories on Amazon under the brand Grill Sergeant. “I can use their staff, their storage, and I can instantly also take the data of advertising, so I can target ads.” He also disputed the FTC’s claim that Amazon has become littered with ads in search results, causing shoppers to wade through potentially less-relevant products of lesser quality. “We can tailor our ads to hit exactly the consumers we want,” Moller said. “It’s a perfect marriage of a transaction, and that’s one of the beauties of what their marketplace offers.” Needham said he feels he would have been more supportive of the case if it were filed a few years ago, pre-pandemic. At that time, he said, "I would have felt, yes Amazon is a monopoly… But actually after Covid, into 2023, ecommerce has had a lot of big changes.” He added, "The competition is just not what it was in 2019." Competitors like Shopify and Walmart are increasingly viable alternatives for many categories of sellers, Needham said, not to mention rapidly growing Chinese e=commerce companies like Temu. As a result, Needham said he’s seen some significant changes from Amazon. Among those is a greater ability for Amazon sellers to communicate with buyers, offering select customers certain promotions. Shopify, for example, gives sellers much more control over how they communicate with customers, Needham said, adding that although Amazon still controls the communication process, at least there is one. "I wish it was a clear-cut case,” Needham said. “I have a vested interest in the marketplace doing really well, as a seller and as a service provider. And... this case, it doesn’t make the marketplace better for sellers."

Concerns over Amazon pricing policies, fees

Many sellers have zeroed in on Amazon’s pricing policies and rising fees as rightful areas of concern in the FTC's lawsuit. Molson Hart, whose company Viahart sells toys on Amazon, has been a longtime critic of Amazon’s pricing policies. Hart complained of how Amazon’s seller fees impact pricing in a 2019 Medium post and later that year testified about his experience before a House committee. Hart said Amazon sales comprise about 90% of his business, meaning any hit those sales take on Amazon has a considerable impact. He recalled “24 anxious hours” in September 2022 when a third-party seller of his popular construction toy Brain Flakes listed the toy for a lower price on Target than it was offered on Amazon.

Molson Hart, CEO of Viahart, an educational toy company that sells on Amazon. Courtesy: Molson Hart Christmas Day isn't just for the NBA, as the NFL is set to air an exciting triple-header featuring fierce division clashes and a highly anticipated matchup we could see again on Super Bowl Sunday. Here are the top players and storylines to monitor for Monday's slate.

Las Vegas Raiders (6-8) at Kansas City Chiefs (9-5) | 1 p.m. ET

New chapter in Patrick Mahomes-Maxx Crosby rivalry: This hasn't been as much of a rivalry between the teams as of late, with Kansas City holding a 10-1 record over the Raiders since Mahomes became its starting quarterback. Yet it has sparked an exciting feud between the two-time Super Bowl MVP and the two-time Pro Bowler Crosby, who has five sacks in nine career games against the Chiefs.

Mahomes and Crosby might not like facing one another, though it's clear there's mutual respect between the two, which only makes their rivalry more intriguing to watch.

Can Raiders QB Aidan O’Connell earn next season’s starting job?: After leading the offense on seven touchdown scoring drives in last week's 63-21 win over the Chargers, the rookie fourth-rounder aims to further establish himself as a serious contender for Las Vegas' starting job next season. Despite the encouraging performance, O'Connell has been inconsistent across six games as the full-time starter, throwing for 1,300 yards, seven touchdowns, and five interceptions.

However, a stellar showing against the NFL's fifth-ranked pass defense (202.5 yards per game allowed) would benefit his bid to be the starter in 2024.

Chiefs TE Travis Kelce: Yes, his girlfriend will be in town for the holiday. Kelce is averaging 89.6 yards per game with global popstar Taylor Swift in attendance this season but is coming off his worst outing in her presence, catching five passes for 28 yards.

Even so, Kelce's 81.3 average receiving yards per game against the Raiders since 2019 suggests the All-Pro tight end is in line for a productive outing and could potentially snap his four-game scoring drought.

New York Giants (5-9) at Philadelphia Eagles (10-4) | 4:30 p.m. ET

Will the Eagles defense shake off the rust?: Appointing Matt Patricia as defensive play-caller didn't change much for the Eagles, whose defense has given up the third-most points in the NFL over their current three-game losing streak (95). Although the unit has reached its lowest point, there are reasons to be optimistic about Monday's matchup.

New York ranks 31st among teams in points and yards per game this season and has surrendered a staggering 76 sacks, the third-most in a single season in NFL history. Not to mention, the annual trip to Philadelphia has essentially been a scheduled loss for the Giants, with their last win at Lincoln Financial Field coming in 2013.

Can QB Jalen Hurts and the Eagles offense finally bounce back?: Philadelphia's defense isn't the only unit that needs to rebound, as the offense has struggled mightily over the last three games, with Hurts' ineffectiveness playing a significant role. After averaging the third-most points in the NFL over the first 11 games (28.2), the Eagles have scored four offensive touchdowns during their current skid, three of which came via the "tush push."

The Eagles may have difficulty throwing against a solid Giants pass defense, though they could alleviate some of their offensive woes by running the ball efficiently. New York gives up 131.6 rushing yards per game, the fourth-most in the league.

Does Giants QB Tommy DeVito have any magic left?: The Giants may have a terrible offense, but this unit has operated at its best under DeVito, an undrafted rookie and native of Cedar Grove, New Jersey.

DeVito has thrown for 858 yards, seven touchdowns, and one interception in five games since being named New York's starting quarterback, posting the 13th-highest passer rating in the NFL during that stretch (97.3).

Baltimore Ravens (11-3) at San Francisco 49ers (11-3) | 8:15 p.m. ET

Potential Super Bowl sneak peek and MVP implications: Easily the most hyped game of the week, with the top seed in each respective conference squaring off in what could be a potential Super Bowl LVIII preview as well as the decisive clash for the MVP Award.

According to oddschecker, 49ers QB Brock Purdy is listed as the heavy favorite to be named league MVP (-230), while Baltimore signal-caller Lamar Jackson holds the second-shortest odds (+525).

Purdy, the final pick of the 2022 NFL Draft, has seen his career unfold as if it were a fairy tale that just keeps getting more remarkable. The 23-year-old ranks first in the NFL in QBR (76) and touchdown passes (29) while ranking third in passing yards (3,795), all of which are especially impressive considering he's coming off offseason elbow surgery.

Jackson might not be posting the ridiculous numbers he did during his 2019 MVP campaign, but the adjustment in his play style in his first season under OC Todd Monken has led to sustainable, winning football. Nevertheless, Baltimore needs an upset win for Jackson to capture another MVP Award, as he has thrown for 3,105 yards and 17 touchdowns while adding 741 yards on the ground with five scores this season.

49ers RB Christian McCaffrey: If Purdy wasn't playing at such a high level — and the MVP wasn't a quarterback-driven award — it'd be difficult to argue against McCaffrey taking home the honors. McCaffrey, who seems poised to win the Offensive Player of the Year Award, leads the NFL in rushing (1,292 yards) and total yards per game (128.6) this season and is tied for first in touchdowns (20).

Ravens TE Isaiah Likely thriving in the starting role: The Ravens offense hasn't lost a step since losing one of the team's top weapons in tight end Mark Andrews (ankle) in Week 11, largely due to Likely's emergence.

The second-year tight end has averaged 64.3 yards over his last three games, which is particularly noteworthy since Andrews averaged 54.4 yards per game before sustaining his injury.

Should we expect a defensive battle?: While both teams boast offenses that rank in the top five in yardage and scoring, this may not turn into a shootout. The Ravens defense has allowed the fewest points per game this season (16.1) and second-fewest total yards (4,030), while San Francisco's unit ranks second in points (16.7) and 10th in yardage (310 per game).

The 49ers defense might be slightly inferior statistically, but it could have more of an impact in this matchup. San Francisco has racked up an NFL-leading 25 turnovers and has given up the second-fewest rushing yards (1,252), which should help slow down the team with the league's most effective running game. The Lions just needed to get themselves back in the win column after a blowout loss in Baltimore, and they did just that in front of their home fans on Monday night.

Detroit rolled to a 26-14 victory over the Raiders in a game that felt much more one-sided than the score indicates.

The Lions thoroughly outplayed the Raiders, out-gaining Las Vegas by 329 yards, but critical mistakes by Detroit left points on the board. The offense struggled to turn red zone opportunities into touchdowns in the first half, and two turnovers deep in Raiders territory -- including a pick-six by Jared Goff -- kept Las Vegas in the game in the second half.

MORE: What to know about Lions' retro 'Honolulu blue' helmets

Nonetheless, the Lions' defense dominated. The Raiders were abysmal on the offensive side of the ball, outside of a second-quarter touchdown drive led by Josh Jacobs. Jimmy Garoppolo completed just 10 passes, badly missing a wide-open Davante Adams on multiple occasions.

Adams was seen slamming his helmet down on the sideline in the fourth quarter, and it's tough to blame the star receiver after an 11-yard performance that could have been exponentially better with better quarterback play.

The story of the night was Lions rookie Jahmyr Gibbs, who finally broke through after entering the season with sky-high expectations. Tasked with leading the backfield in David Montgomery's absence, Gibbs exploded for 189 scrimmage yards and a touchdown in the win. It was the first 100-yard rushing performance of his career.

Meanwhile, Amon-Ra St. Brown notched his third consecutive 100-yard game despite entering Monday as questionable with an illness.

MORE: Why Davante Adams is unlikely to be traded before deadline

The Lions enter their bye in sole possession of the No. 2 seed in the NFC, while the Raiders drop their second consecutive game against an NFC North opponent and have what might be a must-win game against the Giants in Week 9 if they want any chance to linger in the AFC playoff race.

The Sporting News tracked live updates and highlights throughout the "Monday Night Football" matchup between the Raiders and Lions. Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Raiders vs. Lions final score

1 2 3 4 Final Raiders 0 7 7 0 14 Lions 3 13 7 3 26

Raiders vs. Lions results, highlights from 'Monday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Final: Lions 26, Raiders 14

11:15 p.m. — That'll do it! The Lions bounce back and move to 6-2 with the win over Las Vegas. Detroit left points on the board, but the Raiders were thoroughly outplayed in this one.

11:09 p.m. — The Lions get the ball back and will try to ice the game at this point.

11:08 p.m. — Adding insult to injury, Garoppolo is sacked for the sixth time tonight. It's 4th & 17.

11:07 p.m. — Davante Adams has had his way with Cameron Sutton at times tonight, and Garoppolo has just not made the throw each time. It happens again here on what would've been a game-changing play. Garoppolo has had a brutal night.

11:04 p.m. — Riley Patterson missed a 26-yard field goal attempt after making his first four attempts tonight. Strange. The Lions can't come away with points on that drive.

11:01 p.m. — What would've been a Reynolds touchdown is erased by a holding penalty. That does give the Lions a chance to erase some more time on the clock, though.

11:00 p.m. — Craig Reynolds, up to 66 yards, has the Lions on the verge of the end zone.

10:58 p.m. — Garoppolo is sacked AGAIN. It's Anzalone for the second time on the drive, and that sends the ball right back to the Lions.

10:56 p.m. — Now the Lions sack Garoppolo on back-to-back plays as Alex Anzalone and Alim McNeill come in to send the Raiders to 3rd & 28.

10:53 p.m. — Garoppolo hits Jakobi Meyers for a big 19 yards to give the Raiders something to work with.

10:51 p.m. — The Garoppolo-to-Adams connection is just not working tonight. Adams was all by himself downfield, and Garoppolo throws it well out of bounds.

Lions 26, Raiders 14

10:46 p.m. FIELD GOAL — 52 yards? No problem for Patterson, who extends the Lions' lead to 12.

10:45 p.m. — Kalif Raymond was set up for a big play, but Goff's throw was just a bit behind him. That will get Riley Patterson on the field for a 52-yard field goal try.

10:43 p.m. — Goff gets pushed forward on 4th & 1 to keep the Lions' drive alive. They're into Raiders territory, trying to ice this game.

10:36 p.m. — Gibbs is just wearing down this Raiders defense for chunks of yards. He's up to 179 scrimmage yards and has the Lions moving down the field again.

End of third quarter: Lions 23, Raiders 14

10:32 p.m. — Gibbs turns what looked like little or no gain into a first down. He has 126 yards on the ground.

10:31 p.m. — Alim McNeill sacks Garoppolo for an 8-yard loss, ending Las Vegas' drive. Aside from the second quarter drive dominated by Jacobs, the Raiders' offense has shown nothing tonight. Garoppolo has just 62 yards through nearly three quarters.

10:28 p.m. — Michael Mayer gets the Raiders' drive started with a big 19-yard gain. That's the rookie's first catch of the night.

Lions 23, Raiders 14

10:25 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — There goes Jahmyr Gibbs! It's the rookie's night. He takes off for a 27-yard touchdown with his blazing speed and has 149 scrimmage yards on the night. More importantly, he gives the Lions a two-possession lead.

10:23 p.m. — A pass interference call gives the Lions 18 yards and takes them well into Raiders territory after starting the drive with strong field position.

10:18 p.m. — The Lions quickly get the Raiders off the field, and a bad drop by Davante Adams on third down is the culprit. The throw was a bit low, but Adams still had it in his grasp for a second. Las Vegas will punt.

10:16 p.m. — It was hard to find a conclusive angle of what happened there, but Lions fans are making it known they think Reynolds was down. It doesn't matter. It's Raiders ball with a chance for Las Vegas to take the lead.

10:13 p.m. FUMBLE — For now, the Raiders force a fumble by Reynolds and instantly end the Lions' drive. Maxx Crosby ripped it right out of his arms. Was he down? That's what officials are taking a closer look at.

10:11 p.m. — Another first down by Gibbs, who has 116 scrimmage yards, and the Lions have 1st & Goal.

10:09 p.m. — Officials come out to measure whether Craig Reynolds got a first down...and he did. On the next play, Reynolds catches a pass from Goff for 12 yards. The Lions are in business on the verge of the red zone.

10:06 p.m. — The Lions have gotten over midfield with two early first downs as they try to steal the momentum back. St. Brown is up to 108 yards on the night.

Lions 16, Raiders 14

10:01 p.m. PICK-SIX — Marcus Peters picks off Goff and runs it 74 yards back for the touchdown! Amon-Ra St. Brown didn't have his eye on the throw from Goff, but Peters did. The Raiders are right back in this game.

10:00 p.m. — There goes Jahmyr Gibbs! The rookie breaks tackles for a bruising 24-yard run. He's up to 97 scrimmage yards tonight.

9:56 p.m. — Julian Okwara sacks Garoppolo on third down, forcing a Raiders punt. The Lions didn't want to let Las Vegas build any momentum to start the half, and mission accomplished.

9:55 p.m. — It's quickly 3rd & 9 to start this third quarter after Davante Adams unsuccessfully looks for a pass interference call.

End of first half: Lions 16, Raiders 7

9:39 p.m. — The Raiders run one play but elect to go to the half. They'll start the second half with the ball and could use at least some points on that drive if they want to stay in this game.

Lions 16, Raiders 7

9:36 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — LaPorta's great rookie season rolls on! The rookie picks up his fourth touchdown of the season and extends the Lions' lead. Detroit found success running the ball early, but that drive featured nice work from Goff. 16-7. Lions.

9:35 p.m. — LaPorta picks up a first down for the Lions, and now Dan Campbell is going to start using his timeouts with 31 seconds left in the half. Detroit is at the Raiders' 18-yard line.

9:33 p.m. — St. Brown picks up another first down for the Lions as they enter field goal range again. St. Brown is up to 94 yards in the first half after entering the day listed as questionable.

9:30 p.m. — What would've been a horsecollar penalty on a nice Gibbs run is offset by a holding call. The fans don't like it.

9:26 p.m. — There's a welcomed sight for Lions fans: Goff hits Jameson Williams for a 22-yard gain. Williams was held without a catch despite six targets in Baltimore last week.

9:25 p.m. — Crosby is doing so much more than just getting to the quarterback tonight. He wraps up Gibbs, the third time tonight he's had an explosive play on a ball-carrier.

9:21 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — That was a statement drive by the Raiders. Jacobs looked like the dominant runner he was last season and takes it in himself for the game's first touchdown.

9:20 p.m. — Davante Adams doesn't have a single catch tonight, but Jacobs has 12 touches. Right now, it's starting to work. The Raiders are set up with 1st & Goal.

9:19 p.m. — The Raiders are quickly into the red zone after another nice gain for Josh Jacobs.

9:17 p.m. — Las Vegas' offense is moving much smoother now as Austin Hooper picks up another first down. Hooper has two catches on this drive.

9:15 p.m. — It's back-to-back first downs for the Raiders, with the help of a 15-yard penalty on Aidan Hutchinson for a low block.

Lions 9, Raiders 0

9:11 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Lions' drive fizzles almost instantly, so it's back to Riley Patterson's leg for another field goal. Detroit leads, 9-0.

9:09 p.m. — Momentum swings abound. St. Brown comes right back with a 24-yard catch to make up the lost yardage and much more.

9:08 p.m. — Maxx Crosby blows up another play, this time dropping Jameson Williams for a loss of six.

9:06 p.m. — Big play alert! Goff hits an open Amon-Ra St. Brown, who goes 44 yards to breathe life into the Lions' offense.

9:03 p.m. — The Raiders' offense continues to have nothing in the tank. Las Vegas gains four yards and is forced to punt after less than a minute with the ball.

Lions 6, Raiders 0

8:58 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Detroit was simply trying to draw the Raiders offsides. It didn't work. Riley Patterson's field goal is good, and the Lions extend their lead to six.

8:56 p.m. — Raymond makes up some yardage on fourth down but comes up about eight yards short of the goal line. The Lions may be considering going for it...

8:55 p.m. — The Lions are moving backwards after a holding call on Taylor Decker.

End of first quarter: Lions 3, Raiders 0

8:51 p.m. — Goff comes under heavy pressure on 3rd & 11 but finds a wide open Kalif Raymond for the first down. The Lions are into the red zone.

8:49 p.m. — There's Amon-Ra St. Brown. Goff hits him on back-to-back plays for a total of 20 yards.

8:47 p.m. — Garoppolo's fourth down pass goes to no man's land after Hunter Renfrow falls down. The Lions will be set up not too far from field goal range.

8:46 p.m. — The Raiders will go for it on 4th & 2 from about midfield...

8:43 p.m. — The Raiders' defense rises to the challenge and forces a quick three-and-out. Detroit is punting for the first time tonight.

8:38 p.m. INTERCEPTION — And just like that... Jimmy Garoppolo turns it over. That can't happen. Kerby Joseph picks it off just in front of the end zone and gets the ball back to the Lions' offense two plays after the fumble.

8:36 p.m. FUMBLE — A big mistake from Josh Reynolds, who loses the ball after a catch and sees it quickly scooped up by the Raiders. It's Las Vegas ball deep in Lions territory.

8:33 p.m. — Garoppolo fights hard for the first down, using his legs and taking a big hit, but he comes up a yard short. The Raiders will punt.

8:31 p.m. — A flag flies on the Raiders' first offensive snap, but it's picked back up as Josh Jacobs takes a pass 12 yards for a quick first down.

Lions 3, Raiders 0

8:26 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Lions' running game stalls out, but not before they worked their way into field goal range. Riley Patterson drills one from 44 yards out to put Detroit in front early.

8:22 p.m. — With Gibbs getting a breather, Craig Reynolds comes in and delivers a bruising 11-yard run. The Lions are bullying their way down the field.

8:21 p.m. — Is this the Jahmyr Gibbs game? He already has six touches and just ran his way to another first down.

8:19 p.m. — Gibbs picks up another Lions first down on a catch-and-run. He's heavily involved in the offense early on with David Montgomery out.

8:18 p.m. — Goff hands off to Jahmyr Gibbs on the first two snaps of the night, and he hits Sam LaPorta on third down to convert. Nice start for the Lions' rookie class tonight.

8:15 p.m. — The Lions will start with the ball, and we are underway!

8:07 p.m. — As the broadcast points out, this is a homecoming for Michigan native Maxx Crosby. The play of him and fellow Michigan native Aidan Hutchinson will be pivotal tonight.

7:56 p.m. — Josh Jacobs hasn't averaged more than 3.6 yards per carry in a single game this season. Can he get going against a strong Lions run defense? It'll be tough to win without at least some production from the former first-rounder.

7:40 p.m. — On that note... Harlow will be performing at halftime of the Lions' Thanksgiving game next month.

Just announced! @jackharlow will be the performer for our Thanksgiving Halftime Show powered by @Verizon!



📰 https://t.co/oUNhlBkWe3 pic.twitter.com/vMCAMpCFfk — Detroit Lions (@Lions) October 30, 2023

7:20 p.m. — Jack Harlow is in the house supporting the Lions.

.@JackHarlow repping the Honolulu blue 🦁



Catch his performance at the @Lions Thanksgiving Halftime Show powered by @Verizon pic.twitter.com/haMpQ95y5U — NFL (@NFL) October 30, 2023

6:49 p.m. — Brian Hoyer is inactive tonight, so Aidan O'Connell is the Raiders' backup quarterback behind Jimmy Garoppolo

6:45 p.m. — Lions WR Amon-Ra St. Brown is officially active after being listed as questionable with an illness.

6:25 p.m. — This could be an important one: Raiders K Daniel Carlson will play tonight after being listed as questionable with a groin injury. Even more important will be whether Carlson's injury changes Josh McDaniels' decision-making.

Raiders’ kicker Daniel Carlson, listed as questionable for tonight due to a groin injury, will be Las Vegas’ kicker tonight, per league source. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 30, 2023

What time is Raiders vs. Lions tonight?

Date: Monday, Oct. 30

Monday, Oct. 30 Time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Raiders vs. Lions is set to kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET at Ford Field in Detroit, Mich. for "Monday Night Football."

The Lions have won four of their last five matchups with the Raiders, though Las Vegas got the better of them when they last met in 2019.

MORE: Dan Campbell explains why Lions 'probably needed' blowout loss to Ravens

What channel is Raiders vs. Lions on tonight?

Joe Buck and Troy Aikman will be on the call for Raiders vs. Lions, with Lisa Salters providing sideline reports for the matchup.

For cord-cutters, Fubo carries the ESPN family of networks, as well as ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC and NFL Network, meaning you will be able to catch nationally televised games throughout the 2023 season. Fubo also offers a free trial.

Viewers in Canada can catch the matchup on DAZN, which carries NFL Game Pass. The UTSA Roadrunners (8-4) take on the Marshall Thundering Herd (6-6) on Tuesday night in the Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl (9 p.m ET, ESPN). The matchup sees the Roadrunners as large betting favorites on odds boards. Currently, USTA is favored by on the point spread, with Marshall available for on the moneyline.

The Roadrunners are in their 13th season as a program but have yet to win a bowl game. This is the fourth bowl game they've played in five years. Marshall is competing in a bowl game for the seventh straight year.

These teams have been on different streaks as the year has progressed. UTSA has won seven of its last eight games, while Marshall has lost six of its last eight.

Here are the live odds, team betting news, player props and our betting prediction for UTSA vs. Marshall in Tuesday's Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl.

Live odds for UTSA vs. Marshall: Point spread, moneyline, total

Check out UTSA vs. Marshall live odds, including the spread, moneyline and total available at the best online sportsbooks.

More: North Carolina vs. West Virginia odds in Duke's Mayo Bowl | Best college football betting promos

UTSA Roadrunners betting news

UTSA has hit its stride over the second half of the season, before losing 29-16 to Tulane in its last outing. The Roadrunners scored at least 34 points in every win since Oct. 7, proving to be an offensive juggernaut. Everything starts with star QB Frank Harris.

The dual-threat QB has completed 64.9% of his passes this season for 2,506 yards and 18 touchdowns. While impressive, he totaled 4,059 yards and 32 TDs on a 69.6% completion rate last year. UTSA's offense is good, but we've seen a better version of the unit in recent seasons.

Still, Harris' experience and talent often shine through. UTSA's leading receiver Joshua Cephus did the heavy lifting for the unit. He caught 82 passes for 1,049 yards and nine touchdowns. The offense also had four ball carriers with at least 323 rushing yards, so there are plenty of threats for head coach Jeff Traylor to unleash.

UTSA averaged 31.7 points and 424.6 total yards per game, which rank 37th and 39th in the nation, respectively. Roadrunners opponents ranked 69th in third down conversion rate, but the defense allowed an 87.5% score rate in the red zone (99th).

UTSA is 5-6-1 ATS and 4-7-1 to the OVER.

UTSA Roadrunners opting out of Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl

The Roadrunners will be without their best defensive player, Trey Moore, as he looks to jump to a Power 5 school. Moore led the conference in sacks, so he's a star-level absence for the unit.

Here are USTA players who won't play in the Frisco Bowl.

Trey Moore, EDGE (transfer portal)

Syrus Dumas, DB (transfer portal)

Xavier Spencer, CB (transfer portal)

Kyle Eaves, WR (transfer portal)

Marshall Thundering Herd betting news

The toughest blow for Marshall in this game is being without second-year starting QB Cam Fancher (transfer portal). Instead, Marshall will start freshman Cole Pennington, who is the son of former Marshall star QB Chad Pennington. Pennington has thrown six interceptions and zero touchdowns on only 79 passing attempts this season.

Marshall's offense will continue to run through star RB Rasheen Ali. The senior speedster carried the offense even when Fancher was under center, totaling 1,256 yards and 15 touchdowns on the season. This offense has struggled despite Ali's efforts, ranking 93rd in scoring and 89th in yards per game.

On the season, Marshall is 4-8 ATS and 6-6 on the O/U board. The Herd won only three of their eight conference games on the season.

Marshall Thundering Herd opting out of Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl

While UTSA has the biggest individual loss for this game, the Herd's depth has taken a huge blow thanks to transfer portal entrants.

Chase Harrison, QB (transfer portal)

Brandon McElroy, DL (transfer portal)

Caleb Coombs, WR (transfer portal)

Zion Odoms, WR (transfer portal)

Jayven Hall, LB (transfer portal)

Cam Fancher, QB (transfer portal)

Thomas Lane, DL (transfer portal)

Chinazo Obobi, OT (transfer portal)

Maurice Jones, RB (transfer portal)

Sean Sallis, TE (transfer portal)

Myles Bell, DB (transfer portal)

Trent Holler, iOL (transfer portal)

Joshua McTier, CB (transfer portal)

Jabarrek Hopkins, DL (transfer portal)

CK Obobi, OL (transfer portal)

Sean Ellis, TE (transfer portal)

TyShawn Hurst, OT (transfer portal)

Elijah Russell, EDGE (transfer portal)

UTSA vs. Marshall prop bets at BetMGM Sportsbook

BetMGM Sportsbook offers some excellent player props for the Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl between the Roadrunners and Thundering Herd.

Frank Harris prop bets

237.5 passing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Passing TDs OVER 1.5 (-125) / UNDER 1.5 (-105)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-110)

Joshua Cephus props bets

80.5 receiving yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-190)

Rasheen Ali prop bets

80.5 rushing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-175)

Kevorian Barnes prop bets

64.5 rushing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-135)

Robert Henry prop bets

Anytime touchdown scorer (-130)

UTSA vs. Marshall prediction: Frank Harris leads Roadrunners past the Herd

Even with the transfer portal hitting this game hard, the UTSA offense will be too much for Marshall to keep up with. The Roadrunners push the pace in a way that Marshall can't replicate, and the Thundering Herd aren't efficient enough to make the most of what few scoring opportunities they'll have.

The Thundering Herd could find themselves down several scores by the end of the first frame if Pennington turns the ball over, as he's prone to do. UTSA is a well-oiled machine against teams with similar or worse talent, and Marshall is in that latter category.

It's a big number to lay, but we're on the favorite Tuesday night.

Pick: UTSA The Ponies are riding high again, having guaranteed their fifth consecutive winning season. Such success hasn’t been seen in Dallas since the years that led to SMU’s ignominious Death Penalty, which suspended its program in 1987 and ’88.

SMU is 7-2, 5-0 in its final go-round in the American Athletic Conference. And here comes North Texas (3-6, 1-4), which has dropped four of its past five games and allows 37.4 points to its foes, ninth-worst in the nation.

The Mustangs get a national ESPN2 audience Friday in a 9 p.m. ET kickoff.

When looking at North Texas vs. SMU odds, props and predictions, the recent past gives us a pretty good window into what to expect: Over the previous four seasons, SMU has clamped down on North Texas by scores of 48-10, 35-12, 65-35 and 49-27, covering the spread each time and comfortably in all but one.

North Texas at SMU odds: Point spread, moneyline, total

Here are the latest college football betting odds for the Mean Green vs. Mustangs:

This opened Mustangs -14 and an exorbitant total of 71.5 in Vegas, which had shifted to 16 and 67.5, respectively, 24 hours later. Two of our three models have SMU winning by 22 and 18 points, so the spread grabs our attention.

North Texas betting news: There’s no 'D' in Mean Green

This will be a challenge for North Texas because SMU possesses a top-10 defense, allowing foes only 0.251 points per play; which only stiffens (to 0.185) when the Ponies play at home.

The North Texas defense is 12th from the D-I basement, giving up 0.501 ppp; and an even looser 0.533 on the highway.

SMU’s 20th-rated offense (0.483) sharpens to a ridiculous 0.662 at home—the only squads more efficient in their own yards are USC (0.780), LSU (0.762), Oregon (0.712) and Washington (0.690).

The definition of élite.

Until he had two passes picked off last Saturday in a 38-20 defeat to UTSA, junior QB Chandler Jones had thrown 262 passes through seven games with 19 TDs and no interceptions.

Jones, who started his career at Louisiana-Monroe, snatched the job from Stone Earle early in the season and hasn’t disappointed first-year coach Eric Morris.

The Mean Green defense has been another story, since allowing 681 total yards to Cal in the opener. Its past three foes have rung up 1,460 total yards and 15 TDs. Its yield of 479 yards per game is the worst in the country.

That sound you hear is SMU super sophomore QB Preston Stone licking his chops as he read that last sentence.

More college football: Best college football betting sites | Top college football bonuses

SMU betting news: Ponies on a stone-cold winning streak

The Mustangs are knotted atop the AAC with fellow 5-0 squads Tulane and UTSA. They’ve accumulated 1,685 total yards of offense in their past three games, including 91 first downs via passing, running or penalty, and 18 touchdowns.

By happy coincidence, no doubt for second-year SMU boss Rhett Lashlee, the defense has flexed over that span, yielding just 668 total yards, 39 total first downs and a mere four TDs.

When last seen at Gerald J. Ford Stadium, two weeks ago, rain might have kept fans away as only 20,800 filled the 32,000-capacity barn for SMU’s 69-10 homecoming belting of Tulsa.

Stone, playing near where he was raised, threw touchdown strikes of 74, 62 and 17 yards. By halftime, it was 52-3, the most Division I points tallied in the first 30 minutes this year.

The 6-foot-2 sophomore from Dallas has been heating up lately, perfect timing to continue improving SMU’s bowl prospects after a 2-2 start that included keen tests (and defeats) at Oklahoma and TCU.

The Mustangs own a five-game winning streak, and in his past four games Stone has thrown 122 passes, 10 for touchdowns and none for interceptions. He’s also run it in twice.

He threw for 300 yards against Prairie View A&M, and in this golden four-game stretch he’s accumulated 1,171 aerial yards.

Receivers RJ Maryland and Jordan Hudson have five TD catches apiece, and Roderick Daniels Jr. has four. Three others have two. Jaylan Knighton (511 yards, four TDs) paces the ground game.

However, Stone’s sterling development might have found a speed bump last week at Rice when he left early in the fourth quarter after getting hit hard. He zipped to the locker room and returned, minus his helmet.

If concussion protocol restricts him from playing Friday, look for redshirt freshman Kevin Jennings to start for SMU. He’s thrown 42 career passes, with 33 completions, four TDs and no picks.

Should Stone not play, we will call an audible and play Under this total. Monitor it closely and prepare to take action within an hour of kickoff.

North Texas vs. SMU props

Player props for North Texas vs. SMU have not been made available at top sportsbooks, but BetRivers is offering several game props.

Among them are a pair of team combo specials, pairing first TD and the game's outcome:

SMU to score first and win: Yes -165; No +123

North Texas to score first and win: Yes +950; No -5000

North Texas at SMU prediction ATS

At home, the Mustangs average 0.3 giveaways per game, among the top seven teams in the country. On the road, North Texas coughs it up nearly twice a game, among the bottom third of D-I. Moreover, SMU is one of 14 programs that are the best-balanced squads in the country, passing and running between 49 and 51 percent of the time. Coaches pray for such balance. And the SMU defense, top 10 in key categories, will keep QB Jones and the Mean Green at bay.

Pick: SMU A decade ago, the Houston Astros were struggling to stay afloat. Parting ways with the National League after 50 years of play, the team was looking forward to an American League move. Hoping that their fortunes would be reversed from regularly ranking near the bottom of divisional standings, the Stros applied every method they could think of to win. But they weren’t all above board.

America’s Favorite Video Today

Jim Crane had obtained club ownership on Nov. 17, 2011. That same year, he brought in Jeff Luhnow, former McKinsey & Company management consultant, as General Manager. In 2014, Crane brought in A.J. Hinch as the manager after the firing of Bo Porter. And there began the story of the rise and decline of one of baseball’s biggest controversies.

The Story Behind the Cheating Scandal That Rocked the 2017 MLB Season

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Jeff Luhnow had always been more about the numbers than people. Wanting to take out the humanity factor from baseball, he was almost an outcast in the sport when Jim Crane hired him. But his radical approach had worked in St. Louis, giving them two championships in six years. Why not the Bayou City next?

The Houston Astros had not seen a World Series title yet and hadn’t even made the playoffs since 2005. Apparently desperate for any measures, they resorted to cheating. Perhaps the biggest surprise was that Luhnow didn’t consider his methods to be dishonest.

As it turned out, the Astros had stolen signs throughout the 2017 season and the beginning of 2018. But the hornet’s nest wasn’t broken open until next year, when The Athletic‘s Ken Rosenthal and Evan Drellich reported on it. After that, all hell broke loose.

What Is Sign Stealing and How Did the Astros Manage to Do It?

Powers of observation are as strong a skill as pitching or hitting and they’re perfectly legal in baseball. A batter can sometimes figure out from a pitcher’s unconscious movements, or ‘tells’, what kind of ball is coming their way. At any given moment, non-verbal signs are flying around between a dugout and the field as a way for the players to communicate with a manager or coach. But as long as it’s done without extra help, this sign stealing is, in fact, allowed. What Houston did was not.

The Stros installed cameras in center field at Minute Maid Park to record the opposing team’s catcher and pitcher’s signs. Cameras in a ballpark are ideally for challenging calls, but what was one more purpose? The funny thing is, teams have tried to catch on to their rival team’s signs since competitive baseball became a thing. The communication between the catcher and the pitcher can be key to hitting. But the 21st century has an added advantage – technology.

Behind the scenes, players could see a live feed from the camera. Then-bench coach Alex Cora decided to get a screen installed in the dugout. Players or managers would watch the live feed on the television placed in the tunnel leading from the dugout to the clubhouse. The irony lay in the method they used to then really the information to whoever was up to bat on the plate.

Having tried out different methods of shouting and calling, the Astros landed on, of all things, a trash can. Players would bang on them, often using bats, with different rhythms signifying different pitches. Of course, they couldn’t do it at each home game, nor did they try. But whatever sorcery Houston had been practicing that year, it did the trick. It worked like a charm, and the Astros had their first World Series trophy in a long history.

How Did MLB React to It? What Punishment Did It Hand Down?

Not well. No one likes being taken for a fool and what the Astros had done undermined everything the league stood for. Fair play was the holy grail, yet the team had tread on it heartlessly. Fans were livid, although they didn’t get to let out their frustration until 2021.

MLB, for its part, tried to curb the situation as best as it could. In two months, the league investigated “68 people, including 23 Astros players, and collect more than 76,000 emails,” according to The Athletic. Luhnow’s phone showed signs of deleted information. Jan. 13, 2020, was when MLB suspended the disgraced GM and the skipper for the 2020 season. Only for Jim Crane to fire both a few hours later. But for many, the solution was severely lacking.

Why Were the Astros Allowed to Keep Their World Series Trophy?

In the words of MLB Commissioner Robert Manfred, “Once you go down that road of changing what happens on the field, I just don’t know how you decide where you stop.” While many thought taking away the World Series win, essentially nullifying 2017, was the best way to move forward, MLB thought otherwise. The Coomissioner’s Trophy was still legitimate in the eyes of, well, the Commissioner.

“Cheaters” Houston Astros Suddenly Gain Momentum as College Baseball Team Stirs Up Controversial Trash Can Past Along With Thousands

By the time the controversy was uncovered, the Astros were well into establishing a streak of successful years. Manfred called the process of stripping the Fall Classic title “difficult and impractical.” Already unpopular among the masses, he made things worse for himself when he called the trophy a “piece of metal.” Although he apologized later, the team kept the championship victory.

Why Were the Players Not Penalized?

It was an arduous process, investigating an entire organization. While the players were undoubtedly the ones who had put the tactics into play, the Astros staff suffered the heaviest consequences. The ballplayers were instead granted full immunity in exchange for cooperating with the investigation. Indeed, who would refuse such an offer?

Of course, not everyone had been comfortable with what the Astros were doing behind the scenes, like Mike Fiers. Of that original team, four are still in Houston – Jose Altuve, Alex Bregman, Lance McCullers Jr., and Justin Verlander. What makes fans ponder their extreme methods is how genuinely skilled each is. Yet they participated, willingly or unwillingly, in the biggest baseball scandal in recent years.

Is the Inquiry Still On?

After the Jan. 13, 2020 declaration, not much came from Manfred. Other than suspending the front office, MLB fined the Astros $5 million, the maximum amount, and made them forfeit first and second-round draft picks. For better or for worse, the inquiry is over.

How Did the MLB World See This Entire Case?

Needless to say, cheating is never taken in a positive light. Players once accused of using PEDs face the consequences long after they have been retired. It’s only been six years since 2017, and the league is still angry. Back then, social media was a landmine that the Astros probably stayed away from. It was the trash cans that did them in – the irony was too brilliant, or hilarious if one looks at it another way, to ignore.

Boos and jabs at away games were the least of it. When the Astros went to play against the Los Angeles Dodgers, the team they had defeated in the 2017 World Series, fans retaliated by throwing inflatable trash cans onto the field. Others brought tin trash can caps to bang on when the Astros played against their teams. The phrase “Take the trash out” took a life of its own.

Facing Cheating Allegations, Tom Brady’s Successor Mockingly Asserts that He’s not a Houston Astros Fan

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

But it wasn’t just baseball fans who were furious, other sports also considered it a tragedy. Fair play is taken seriously; no one likes being cheated out of an award. Even NBA star LeBron James spoke out in criticism against Houston.

Has MLB Taken Any Action to Stop It From Happening Again?

Before the details of the scandal came out, MLB had handed out warnings here and there against sign stealing. After this fiasco, new restrictions in 2020 prevented the video replay from including the catcher’s signs. In 2022, PitchCom devices also debuted. They allow a pitcher to communicate with the catcher without signs and a few other players on the field can also wear it. But will these tactics help?

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

WATCH THIS STORY – Counting Down the Most Infamous Instances of Athletes Caught Cheating on Live Television

2017 is still fresh in most fans’ minds. The Astros are now in their seventh straight postseason and may make a repeat trip to the Fall Classic. However, the stain of their past mistakes will likely always haunt them. By Chad Jennings, C. Trent Rosecrans and Stephen J. Nesbitt

In one American League Wild Card Series, the whole thing turned on a play designed around crowd noise. It was too loud at Target Field, Twins shortstop Carlos Correa realized, for the third-base coach to warn Blue Jays baserunners about a developing pickoff play. The Twins used the noise to their advantage, picked off Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and secured a two-game sweep.

Advertisement

In the other AL Wild Card Series, empty seats were everywhere. The Rays are an excellent team that thrives on their underdog status — low payroll, injured players, they always find a way — but playing in front of two of the smallest postseason crowds in the past 100 years, the Rays were swept by a Rangers team that had nine fewer wins in the regular season. The indifference was deafening.

Home-field advantage, it turns out, just isn’t the same from one ballpark to the next.

“To be honest with you, I think we have one of the best home-field advantages in baseball,” third baseman Alec Bohm said as the Phillies swept the Marlins to improve to 24-11 in postseason games at Citizens Bank Park. “People say it’s difficult to play here and things like that. I think going through that type of stuff and learning how to play here, that just makes this time of year that much better.”

This time of year certainly brings out the best, and the postseason’s greatest moments tend to be punctuated by the crowds who witness and react in real time. After seeing the way crowds could respond — or not — to October baseball this week, The Athletic ranked the home-field environments of the eight remaining playoff teams, from the replaceable to the Phanatical.

No. 8: Arizona Diamondbacks Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Diamondbacks Chase Field 1998 48,405 24,212

Memorable postseason moment: Game 7 of the 2001 World Series started with a pair of 20-game winners in Roger Clemens and Curt Schilling and ended with Hall of Famers on the mound: Mariano Rivera and Randy Johnson. In what is remembered as one of the greatest postseason games of all time, Luis Gonzalez blooped a bases-loaded single to score Jay Bell and deny the Yankees their fourth consecutive title.

Our take: We’re sorry, D-Backs fans. It’s not you. It’s them. A tremendously impressive two-game sweep in Milwaukee carried the Diamondbacks into a division series showdown with, oh boy, the Dodgers. It’s not that we don’t think Arizona can beat L.A. at home — the Diamondbacks split six games against the Dodgers at Chase Field this season — but it’s less than a seven-hour drive from Dodger Stadium to downtown Phoenix, and we’re concerned that all the quirks of that ballpark could be rendered meaningless if there’s a bunch of Dodgers blue in the crowd.

Advertisement

There’s a lot to like. The pool. The retractable roof. We love it. We hope you prove us wrong. Show up, go nuts, and leave a comment — click to subscribe! — telling us we don’t know a rattlesnake from a water moccasin. We deserve it.

But if we had to go on the road for a playoff game, at least in this round, we’d choose your ballpark. Consider it a compliment! Or maybe we just like the dry heat.

No. 7: Texas Rangers Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Rangers Globe Life Field 2020 40,300 31,272

Memorable postseason moment: There have been 16 postseason games in Globe Life Field history, but the Rangers have never appeared in a playoff game at their new-ish home. How did that happen? Well, 2020. It was a weird time. The Dodgers played in all 16 of those during the 2020 expanded playoffs, sweeping the Padres in the NLDS, going seven games with the Braves in the NLCS and then winning the World Series.

Our take: This is the great unknown. Globe Life Field opened in a season that had no fans, and it remained open for losing seasons in 2021 and 2022. Saturday will be our first look at the place when the home team is actually playing meaningful baseball in October. Hard to rank it any higher until we know what we’re dealing with.

Largest crowd ever for a game at Globe Life Field. #StraightUpTX pic.twitter.com/4I7NIB5eF8 — Chris Halicke (@ChrisHalicke) May 1, 2022

The old Rangers ballpark could drum up a Texas-sized atmosphere worthy of Stevie Ray Vaughan and Pat Green, but the new place — at least in the regular season — feels very much like a multi-events space that happens to be hosting a ballgame. Maybe that changes in the playoffs? The Rangers haven’t been home since Sept. 24 when they won their last five games in Arlington, the last three of which went a long way toward keeping the Mariners out of the postseason.

With a closed roof containing all the noise, Globe Life is sure to get awfully loud, and nothing turns a glorified convention center into a real ballpark quite like a late-inning rally in October.

No. 6: Minnesota Twins Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Twins Target Field 2010 38,544 24,371

Memorable postseason moment: For this, you have to go all the way back to Tuesday. The Twins snapped an 18-game postseason losing streak with two blasts off the bat of rookie Royce Lewis. It was their first playoff win since Oct. 5, 2004. On Wednesday, they completed the Wild Card sweep of the Blue Jays for their first postseason series win since 2002. The roars heard at Target Field, like this one, were more than two decades in the making.

One of those 10,000 Rakes definitely belongs to Royce Lewis. 💪 pic.twitter.com/3gRJp2i8eb — MLB (@MLB) October 3, 2023

Our take: We have only a small sample of postseason games at Target Field, but, boy, Twins fans can make some noise. After Game 1 against Toronto, Twins manager Rocco Baldelli said, “I thought the place was going to split open and melt, honestly. It was out of this universe out there on the field. The fans took over the game. They helped us win today.” The next day, they did it again.

Advertisement

Early in Game 2, Correa told Sonny Gray that, because of the crowd noise, Jays baserunners couldn’t hear their third-base coach screaming, “BACK!” So, with Guerrero on second and a full count to Bo Bichette, they executed a perfect timing pick. “The crowd was incredible,” Gray said after the game. “They were incredible yesterday. They were incredible today from the moment I stepped on the mound an hour before the game to the moment — they’re probably still out there.”

So, Twins fans have swarmed their team with support. But is it intimidating? (It’s certainly better than its predecessor, the Metrodome, but it doesn’t have the same potential for overwhelming volume.) For now, Target Field strikes us as more of an awesome place to play than one that strikes fear in the opponent. But this month Twins fans could prove us very wrong.

No. 5: Houston Astros Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Astros Minute Maid Park 2000 41,168 37,683

Memorable postseason moment: Albert Pujols off Brad Lidge? Jorge Soler to the moon? Nah, we’ll go with Chris Burke ending what was then the longest game in MLB postseason history in both time (5 hours, 50 minutes) and innings (18) with a walk-off home run with one out in the 18th inning in the 2005 NLDS. Burke didn’t start the game but pinch-ran for Lance Berkman in the 10th. Roger Clemens came into the game for Houston in the 16th and pitched three scoreless to pick up the win. But it is Burke’s homer that will always be remembered.

Our take: We get it, Houston. We also think your ballpark should be in the top half of this list. One of our writers called it “the loudest stadium I’ve ever attended, by at least one standard deviation.” The Astros sold out the building 23 times this year. They drew 3 million fans for the first time since 2007. Minute Maid Park is big and loud, and visiting fans show up fully exhausted from walking in the south Texas sun.

The final out from the crowd’s point of view. Wow. Congrats Astros!!! World Series champs again!! #fortheH pic.twitter.com/HKnal8fcuB — Sally MacDonald (@SallyMacFox26) November 6, 2022

But in all those sellouts, the Astros went 6-17. Despite all that noise, they were 39-42 at home. Before their final homestand, the team added some green paint to the batter’s eye in response to player complaints, and the Astros responded by going 1-5 with three of those losses coming against the Royals. So, yes, the ballpark is packed tighter than toes in a cowboy boot, and the place gets louder than a Pantera concert in a concrete basement, but these Astros just haven’t responded to it. Why not? Should a visiting team really be all that intimidated by it? Bring back the in-play flagpole atop Tal’s Hill, we say!

No. 4: Atlanta Braves Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Braves Truist Park 2017 41,084 39,401

Memorable postseason moment: When the Braves won the World Series in 1914, they were still playing in Boston. In 1957, Milwaukee. When Sid Bream slid home to beat the Pirates in 1992, the Braves were in the right city but at the wrong ballpark (Fulton County Stadium doesn’t count). The Max Fried-Jorge Soler game in 2021 happened in Houston. The iconic moment at Truist Park could be Eddie Rosario’s dazzling catch at the wall in Game 4 of the 2021 World Series, but the most memorable — even though it didn’t lead to a championship — might be rookie Ronald Acuna Jr. hitting a grand slam off Walker Buhler in Game 3 of the 2018 NLDS, which happened to be the first postseason game ever played at the ballpark.

Our take: Obviously, there are issues bigger than baseball to deal with here. The war chant and Tomahawk Chop are offensive and problematic, but we’re not going to resolve that issue in the next four weeks. In fact, it’s all about to come front and center — again — as the best team in baseball opens its postseason with a roster that would be plenty intimidating in a Little League park with metal bleachers.

Advertisement

But have you ever seen them play in front of 40,000 screaming fans when the stadium lights go dark and the entire ballpark starts doing the Chop in unison with their lit cell phones?

“It does add something to the offensive ambiance,” our Braves scribe David O’Brien noted.

Truist Park had 54 sellouts this season, and the place drew just over 3.19 million, which was the Braves’ highest total attendance since the park formerly known as SunTrust opened in 2017.

The Braves have won six straight division titles, and they’ve been to the playoffs 22 times since 1991. This is not uncharted territory for them. This ballpark is going to be packed with fans who know their team is good and will not be quiet about it, regardless of what anyone else thinks.

No. 3: Baltimore Orioles Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Orioles Oriole Park at Camden Yards 1992 44,970 23,911

Memorable postseason moment: Delmon Young’s three-run double in the eighth inning of Game 2 of the 2014 ALDS completed the Orioles’ comeback from three runs down in the eighth to beat the Tigers. Zack Britton pitched a perfect ninth, and the Orioles would go on to beat the Tigers in Game 3 in Detroit to sweep the series before losing to the Royals in the ALCS.

Our take: When the Orioles are bad, their ballpark is bad. Beautiful and unmistakable, but bad because of the empty seats and because it is basically a second home ballpark for every East Coast team that takes the train into Baltimore and overwhelms the place with their own variation of the “Let’s go, Yankees” chant. It’s a ballpark that can be, and has been, taken over by opposing fans.

When the Orioles are good, though, Camden Yards is one of the best ballparks in the country, and it starts pregame with every rendition of the national anthem that includes the entire ballpark screaming “O!” in unison, so loud that it drowns out the word “say” before the hope-they’re-ready-for-it singer gets to the words, “does that star-spangled banner yet wave.”

The final night game of the 2023 regular season at Camden Yards pic.twitter.com/ALgqhoJVp6 — Andy Kostka (@afkostka) September 30, 2023

As you’ve no doubt realized, the Orioles are awfully good this year, and we expect Camden Yards to follow their lead. The O’s had the second-most wins in baseball, and their fans responded with a home attendance that jumped more than a half million from last season. A young Orioles roster might be at risk of being shell-shocked on the road, but at home, this team is going to be treated as heroes from the start.

"Go crazy, Baltimore. You are the champions of the American League East." Kevin Brown on the call as the Orioles clinch the American League East and the No. 1 seed in the American League. pic.twitter.com/Q2eXPe4uYL — Awful Announcing (@awfulannouncing) September 29, 2023

Let’s just hope, when they go on the road, manager Brandon Hyde doesn’t forget to use his best reliever in a must-win game. That could be pretty bad.

No. 2: Los Angeles Dodgers Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Dodgers Dodger Stadium 1962 56,000 47,371

Memorable postseason moment: With two outs and a runner on in the ninth inning of Game 1 of the 1988 World Series, Kirk Gibson hobbled toward home plate and stepped in against Hall of Fame A’s closer Dennis Eckersley. The Dodgers were down one and down to their last out. Gibson had an injured left hamstring and a balky right knee. He fouled off Eckersley’s first offering and almost fell over. He fouled off a couple more and worked the count full. Then he pulled an outside pitch into the right-field seats for a walk-off homer and, somehow, made his way around the bases. It remains one of the most badass moments in World Series history.

Our take: All the jokes about traffic still making its way into the parking lot in the second inning are justified. The “intensity” of baseball in L.A. isn’t the same as it is in, say, St. Louis or Boston or any other city where athletes are the biggest celebrities in town.

Advertisement

But by the middle innings, Dodger Stadium is packed, and by the late innings of playoff games, the place has the over-the-top intensity of a Michael Bay car chase (Mookie Betts as Bumblebee). More than one opposing pitcher this season had to tweak his PitchCom device to deal with the late-inning noise that came from such a massive ballpark, one that once again held the largest total attendance in baseball this year.

“You’ve got a four-deck stadium,” Freddie Freeman said this summer. “It’s the only one in baseball. You’ve got 50,000 people, every single night here. For them to go out of their way to make you feel good when you’re doing your job, it means a lot. I do appreciate it. It does make you feel good inside and also just means you’re doing your job pretty good.”

Speaking of doing a job pretty good, the Dodger Stadium D.J. is a maniac. For starters, the volume is set at a level that can’t possibly meet OSHA standards, and beyond that, there’s some twisted desire to have some sort of noise blaring at all times. Plus, there’s the intimidation factor of playing in an iconic ballpark that feels like no other in baseball. Dodger Stadium knows what it is and what it’s about, and it uses every bit of that to its advantage.

No. 1: Philadelphia Phillies Team Venue Opened Capacity Att. (2023) Phillies Citizens Bank Park 2004 42,792 38,157

Memorable postseason moment: There have been three no-hitters in postseason history, and two have taken place at Citizens Bank Park. Those in Philly would like to forget the Astros’ combined no-hitter in Game 4 of last season’s World Series, so instead we’ll concentrate on Roy Halladay’s 2010 no-hitter in Game 1 of the NLDS against the Reds. In his first postseason start, Halladay allowed only one baserunner, when Jay Bruce walked with two outs in the fifth inning.

Our take: Look, Philadelphia fans have thrown snowballs at Santa Claus and batteries at J.D. Drew. Their Phanatic mascot is iconic, but part of his charm is the way he – it? – taunts and antagonizes opponents. It’s a real love-it or hate-it place to play. The Phillies and their fans are capable of producing unforgettable moments, like Wednesday night when Bryson Stott hit a grand slam and the ballpark provided the only commentary necessary.

stott grand slam w/ no commentators thx to ESPN's dolby 5.1 mix pic.twitter.com/2vhUzWKpup — jaiden (@steph_turkey) October 5, 2023

“I yelled at the dugout and couldn’t really hear myself,” Stott said, “so I knew the crowd was loud. Any time we get to play here, you know it’s going to be loud from the very first pitch. I wouldn’t want to play anywhere else. It’s a phenomenal time every time we take the field here in the postseason.”

“I’ve always said it, we’ve got the best fans in baseball,” Bryce Harper added. “It’s an amazing place to play.”

(Top photo of Game 2 of the Wild Card series between the Marlins and the Phillies at Citizens Bank Park on Wednesday: Rob Tringali / MLB Photos via Getty Images) SBF trial: Everything to know from the FTX courtroom ahead of his testimony Sam Bankman-Fried is in court for alleged fraud and money laundering while leading crypto exchange FTX and sister company Alameda. Here’s our latest coverage as the case nears its end.

The trial of Bankman-Fried, the former CEO and co-founder of collapsed crypto exchange FTX, is entering its next chapter as proceedings resume Thursday. As confirmed during a teleconference Wednesday, SBF will be taking the stand, along with a handful of other witnesses as the onus shifts toward the defense after the prosecution brought its case to its conclusion.

As former federal prosecutor Josh Naftalis told TechCrunch, SBF taking to the stand in his own trial is a “Hail Mary” ahead of a verdict and potential sentencing for seven counts tied to fraud and money laundering.

“Once it goes to cross[-examination], he doesn’t get to say, ‘I’m done,’” Naftalis said. “He can’t just walk out if he doesn’t like how it’s going.”



Naftalis spoke at length about what comes next in the trial, and addressed common misconceptions about the prosecution and defense in the latest episode of TechCrunch’s Chain Reaction podcast, which you can listen to below, or on Apple Podcasts or Spotify.

The SBF trial is one of the biggest cases of its kind within the crypto space. Our resident crypto expert Jacquelyn Melinek has been on the ground at the trial since it started, and continues to cover the ins and outs of the proceedings. But the trial has been on pause from October 20 to today, so there’s plenty to catch up on if you need a refresher ahead of it entering its final few phases.

For those in need of a total refresher on the case, her breakdown of how FTX went from the third-largest crypto exchange valued at a peak of $32 billion to bankruptcy will get you up to speed.

You can also follow along with her and the TechCrunch team’s coverage in the Chain Reaction newsletter, which drops Thursdays at 12 p.m. PT, and the Chain Reaction podcast, which will hit your feed every Thursday.

How to follow the SBF trial

The trial kicked off with jury selection October 3. From there, access to the proceedings is limited, as no devices are allowed; reports are being physically put together within the courtroom (or sent to overflow rooms).

Beyond our daily coverage, additional expertise and commentary will live on TechCrunch+. There, you can find stories like this in-depth breakdown of what to expect from both sides of the SBF case, where the prosecution and defense could gain ground or fall short in their arguments and what the takeaways were from the opening arguments.

SBF trial: What we learned in week three

The third week of the trial featured a couple of noteworthy moments for the prosecution, including FTX’s former general counsel Can Sun. He, like many of SBF’s former colleagues, opted to cooperate with authorities and testified that SBF asked him to create a theoretical “legal justification” for the use of billions in consumer funds just days before FTX filed for bankruptcy.

Robert Boroujerdi, managing director of the hedge fund Third Point, testified about his experience working with SBF and FTX, in a partnership that ultimately resulted in a $60 million investment and a lack of awareness about the special relationship between Alameda Research and FTX. Had he known of such a relationship, he testified that Third Point would not have invested in FTX in the first place.

And earlier in the week, a University of Notre Dame professor who helped the government prosecution of Enron and WorldCom, Peter Easton, testified about what he uncovered after tracing the flow of billions of dollars between Alameda Research and FTX. Much of said funding came from customers, and Easton testified that he found that user deposits were used by both FTX and Alameda to purchase real estate, make investments or direct funding toward political causes and charities.

SBF trial: What we learned in week two

The second week of the trial’s standout testimony came from Alameda Research’s former CEO Caroline Ellison, who claimed she took $14 billion from customers to repay debts to lenders, using them as a line of credit under the instruction of SBF. Ellison also went into detail about how a $2 billion venture fund, FTX Ventures, was funded by money that had previously been allocated to Alameda from third-party lenders.

And though there are no charges of bribery in the case, Ellison also testified to paying Chinese officials $150 million to restore access to $1 billion in frozen trading accounts.

SBF trial: What we learned in the week one

As expected, the opening statements in the SBF trial were spicy. The prosecution painted a picture of an empire “built on lies” and made a point to show actual pictures of SBF alongside rich and powerful figures to illustrate the peak of his power and influence prior to FTX’s implosion.

“This man stole billions of dollars from thousands of people,” prosecutor Thane Rehn told the court. “He defrauded sophisticated investors and lenders, and he emptied the accounts of ordinary customers, too. He bought himself wealth, power and influence.”

The defense, on the other hand, depicted SBF and his colleagues as in over their heads, without ill-will as FTX collapsed around them.

“Sam and his colleagues were building the plane as they were flying it,” defense attorney Mark Cohen said. “They had to figure out how to navigate a world where they were running FTX, building out its systems, dealing with hacking threats, managing the credit risk of their customers, managing hundreds of employees, all while building up their actual exchange.”

Read a recap of the prosecution and defense’s full arguments here.

FTX’s co-founder and CTO Gary Wang testified Thursday on the extent to which Alameda Research was used for whatever purposes he and SBF saw fit. The crypto trading firm, according to Wang, pulled funding directly from FTX customers, whose transactions would be funneled toward Alameda and then directed elsewhere.

Check here for our rundown of Wang’s testimony so far, resulting from a guilty plea in December 2022.

Thursday also brought in testimony from Matt Huang, co-founder and managing partner at crypto investment firm Paradigm. That firm invested $278 million in FTX across 2021 and 2022, and is part of a class-action lawsuit accusing it and others of defrauding customers by promoting FTX.

His testimony centered around being left uninformed about FTX’s utilization of customer money to keep the Alameda Research afloat, a practice that Huang says would have halted his involvement. The full breakdown of his testimony on his relationship with FTX, stretching back to 2019, can be found right here.

We also got a look at the composition of the SBF trial’s jury, which ranges from a train conductor to a retired investment banker who attended Stanford University. You can listen to a special joint episode of our podcasts Equity and Chain Reaction to get a better sense of the vibe between the jurors and the rest of the court.

For a full rundown of our coverage of the SBF trial, check below: SBF’s trial has started, this is how he and FTX got here

The highly anticipated criminal trial for Sam Bankman-Fried, former CEO of bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, started Tuesday to determine whether he’s guilty of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy. And as one former federal prosecutor put it: “The odds seem to be stacked against him at this point.”

The 31-year-old co-founded FTX in 2019; within a few years the once third-largest crypto exchange’s valuation hit $32 billion at its peak. It’s now trying to claw back any funds to distribute to creditors.

But how did the once third-largest crypto exchange get here?

Before FTX, Bankman-Fried co-founded crypto-trading firm Alameda Research in 2017. He co-founded FTX in 2019 as a complement to Alameda, to help bring in revenue and liquidity for the trading arm.

Within two years, more than 80 investors provided about $2 billion in capital to FTX, helping Bankman-Fried propel his vision into a reality. In January 2022, the company raised $400 million in a Series C round, boosting its valuation to $32 billion. That was its last round of public funding.

The company gained somewhat mainstream recognition with branding deals and partnerships. For example, in 2021 it bought the naming rights for the Miami Heat’s home arena. FTX also got its name branded on Major League Baseball umpires’ polos, and it partnered with celebrities like Tom Brady and his ex-wife, Gisele Bündchen, as well as Steph Curry, Shaquille O’Neal and Naomi Osaka, among others. He also had close ties to U.S. regulators and government officials, many of whom he donated to.

Bankman-Fried was even compared to Warren Buffet and many called him the white horse of crypto (TechCrunch never did, for what it’s worth).

But in early November 2022, that all changed.

FTX’s collapse

Concerns surrounding FTX’s liquidity grew after CoinDesk published a copy of Alameda’s balance sheet, showing the firm held $14.6 billion in assets and $8 billion in liabilities as of June 30, 2022.

But there was a problem: The report showed Alameda’s largest asset was $3.66 billion of “unlocked FTT” and $2.16 billion of “FTT collateral.” FTT was the token behind FTX.

The balance sheet showed that the $5.82 billion in FTT tokens that Alameda owned was 193% higher than the total FTT market cap, which was about $3 billion at the time. That means it purported to have more FTT tokens on its balance sheet than what existed in the world.

Around the same time it was exposed, the world’s largest crypto exchange, Binance, started pulling out its remaining $2.1 billion equivalent of cash in BUSD and FTT. (It had an equity position in FTX from 2019 to 2021.) This essentially triggered a bank run on FTX.

FTX and Alameda filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. mid-November 2022. Bankman-Fried resigned, and John J. Ray III, the Enron turnaround veteran, was appointed its new CEO.

Bankman-Fried, however, maintained his innocence. At The New York Times’ DealBook Summit, he appeared virtually from the Bahamas, saying “I didn’t ever try to commit fraud on anyone; I was shocked by what happened this month.” In a published DM exchange with a Vox reporter, he said he regretted filing for bankruptcy and thought that “regulators make everything worse.”

SBF arrested

Bankman-Fried was arrested in December 2022 in the Bahamas, where FTX was based. He was then extradited to the U.S. to face a number of criminal charges. He was released on a $250 million bail bond, and he remained under house arrest at his parents’ home in Palo Alto. This was revoked in August after he was accused of intimidating Alameda’s former CEO, Caroline Ellison, by leaking her private diary.

Ray represented the company during a House Financial Services Committee hearing regarding FTX. When asked whether the firm had significant risk management systems, Ray said at the time that “there were virtually no internal controls and no separateness whatsoever” and added that he did not “trust a single piece of paper” in the exchange’s organization. U.S. Attorney Damian Williams called Bankman-Fried’s alleged crimes “one of the biggest financial frauds in American history,” in a press conference.

The aftermath

FTX co-founder and former CTO Gary Wang, and Alameda Research’s former CEO, Caroline Ellison, both pleaded guilty in December 2022 to federal criminal charges in relation to the FTX collapse. They’re also facing civil penalties from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) alongside the criminal charges. Wang and Ellison plan to cooperate with prosecutors and will be major witnesses in the trial, given their close ties to Bankman-Fried, FTX and Alameda.

In January, Bankman-Fried pleaded not guilty to all counts, which include wire fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering and conspiracy to misuse customer funds. He could face up to 115 years in jail if convicted on all charges.

The crypto industry as a whole suffered from FTX’s collapse, which was the first of many. BlockFi filed for Chapter 11 in November 2022, as did Genesis Global Trading in January.

Where we are today

Bankman-Fried will be represented by Cohen & Gresser, and Mark Cohen, a high-profile defense attorney and former federal prosecutor, will be the lead attorney. If that name sounds familiar, it might be because he also represented Ghislaine Maxwell in her sex trafficking trial related to Jeffrey Epstein. He requested an early release for Bankman-Fried but was denied.

With the trial beginning, we’re witnessing how FTX’s story ends. But what’s on our mind is what happens to the investors and creditors affected by the collapse? And what happens to the billions in crypto assets tied up in legal proceedings? Hiya, folks, and welcome to Week in Review (WiR), TechCrunch’s digest of the past week in tech news. It’s TC’s column that highlights the major stories over the past few days, and — we humbly submit — it’s a darn useful resource for folks on the go.

This week, we cover Sam Altman backing a teen’s AI startup, Google’s hardware event (and first impressions of the Pixel 8 Pro), Flexport drama, and the ongoing FTX fallout. Also on the agenda: Gmail’s harsher rules to prevent spam, TikTok testing an ad-free subscription plan, and LinkedIn going big on AI tools. And that’s not all.

If you haven’t, sign up here to get WiR in your inbox every Saturday. And if you have, our thanks. Now, let’s get on with the news.

Most read

Altman backs teen entrepreneurs: Sam Altman is among the backers of an AI startup, founded by two teenagers, that’s aiming to assist businesses in automating workflows in “previously unexplored” ways. Manish writes that Induced AI, founded this year, lets businesses input their back-office tasks in plain English and converts the instructions to pseudo-code in real time.

Google unveils new hardware: This week was Google’s annual hardware event, where the search and consumer tech giant showed off what it’s been working on. Christine wrote up a thorough roundup of the news, which included updates on the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, Pixel Fold, Android 14, Pixel Buds, Google Assistant, Bard, Pixel Watch 2 and other goodies.

Hands on with the Pixel 8 Pro: Darrell took the newly unveiled Pixel 8 Pro for a whirl, and he liked what he saw. While very similar to last year’s model (the Pixel 7 Pro), Darrell felt that the improved cameras, brighter screen and enhanced AI-powered features made it enough of an upgrade to (potentially) warrant a purchase — minus the underutilized temperature sensor. Stay tuned for his full review.

Turmoil at Flexport: Dave Clark, the former Amazon executive who was ousted as CEO of Flexport just a year into the job, fired back at its founder and board, calling recent reporting on the logistics company “deeply concerning.” Clark made the comments Monday in a lengthy post on social media site X following a report from CNBC that provided new information about his last days at Flexport, a freight forwarding and customs brokerage startup valued at $8 billion.

SBF allegedly tried to buy off Trump: The TC team’s been trained on the Manhattan Federal Court for the trial of Sam Bankman-Fried, the disgraced entrepreneur accused of orchestrating the collapse of cryptocurrency exchange FTX. But fascinating details about SBF’s political dealings are emerging from a book by Michael Lewis, “Going Infinite,” that debuted on the first day of the trial, like SBF’s attempt to buy off Trump to get him to not run again for president.

Gmail fights back against spammers: Google this week announced a series of significant changes to how it handles email from bulk senders in an effort to cut down on spam and other unwanted emails. The company says that, starting next year, bulk senders will need to authenticate their emails, offer an easy way to unsubscribe and stay under a reported spam threshold.

TikTok tests an ad-free tier: TikTok is testing an ad-free subscription tier for some users. For $4.99, subscribers get an ad-free experience on TikTok — no other strings attached. But don’t look for the option to arrive anytime soon. TikTok says that it’s piloting the plan in a single, English-speaking market outside the U.S. for now.

LinkedIn leans into AI tools: LinkedIn this week unveiled a string of new AI features spanning its job hunting, marketing and sales products, Ingrid writes. They include a big update to its Recruiter talent sourcing platform, with AI assistance built into it throughout; an AI-powered LinkedIn Learning coach; and a new AI-powered tool for marketing campaigns.

Musk comes clean about X’s metrics — maybe: In September, Elon Musk said that X users were generating a lot of content — creating 100 million to 200 million posts every day, excluding retweets. But speaking at an event this week, X CEO Linda Yaccarino offered a contradictory figure. She claimed X was seeing 500 million posts per day on the platform. So who’s right? Beats us.

Former NSA director’s startup shutters: IronNet, a once-promising cybersecurity startup founded by a former NSA director, has shuttered and laid off its remaining staff following its collapse. The Virginia-based IronNet was founded in 2014 by retired four-star general Keith Alexander and had raised more than $400 million in funding. But IronNet failed to gain traction after going public in August 2021, and its stock price continued to steeply decline in the wake of an initial spike.

Audio

On the hunt for a new podcast to listen to while you work out, do the dishes or rake the leaves (now that fall’s arrived)? Look no further than TechCrunch’s roster, which covers the world of startups, the blockchain and more.

On Equity this week, the crew talked about the SBF trial; deals from VR firms Rainforest, At One Ventures, Section 32 and Greylock, where venture funding has declined; and how Fearless Fund, a firm founded to invest in women of color, is being barred from awarding grants to Black women founders.

Meanwhile, Found featured Esther Rodriguez-Villegas from Acurable, a medical device company that makes patient-friendly wearable devices to diagnose and manage respiratory conditions at home. As a career-long academic, Rodriguez-Villegas talks about how she never intended to be a founder until she learned about how the currently available medical devices make it extremely difficult to detect and treat diseases like sleep apnea and epilepsy.

And over on Chain Reaction, Jacquelyn did a crossover episode with Alex about the SBF trial. Jacquelyn has been on the ground at the Southern District of New York courthouse, listening in to the trial in the same room as Bankman-Fried, so there was lots to talk about.

TechCrunch+

TC+ subscribers get access to in-depth commentary, analysis and surveys — which you know if you’re already a subscriber. If you’re not, consider signing up. Here are a few highlights from this week:

Inside the SBF trial: Rebecca and Jacquelyn report on the second day of the SBF and FTX trial. The prosecution painted Bankman-Fried as someone who knowingly committed fraud to achieve great wealth, power and influence, while the defense countered that the FTX founder acted in good faith, never meant to commit fraud or steal and basically got in over his head.

Battery-boosting software tech: Tim covers Breathe Battery Technologies, a startup that’s developed a bit of software that can be slipped into just about any lithium-ion battery in use today — endowing it with either faster charging speeds or greater longevity.

What lies beyond ChatGPT: Anna surveyed 10 investors about the future of AI and what they believe might be the next big thing. Among other topics, they touched on where startups still stand a chance, where oligopoly dynamics and first-mover advantages are shaping up and the value of proprietary data. Manchester United's domestic form has certainly shown signs of improvement in recent weeks, but that's far from the case in Europe.

Erik ten Hag's side have once again dropped points from a winning position as they drew 3-3 with Galatasaray in the Champions League, a damaging result in their bid to reach the last 16.

4 United were once again the victims of their own demise Credit: Getty

Goals from Alejandro Garnacho and Bruno Fernandes fired them into a two-goal lead within 18 minutes before Chelsea loanee Hakim Ziyech struck back.

Scott McTominay scored what he thought would have been a crucial third shortly after the break but United failed to hold on.

Another free-kick from Ziyech caught Andre Onana off guard once again and a strong strike from Kerem Akturkoglu levelled the scoring.

United now have to beat Bayern Munich and hope Galatasaray draw with FC Copenhagen on the final matchday to progress, and it's the third time in the Champions League this season that they have been in a winning position and then failed to emerge victorious.

Eight points have been dropped when they've been in the lead, and no other team has suffered a worse fate this term.

Captain Fernandes appears to be fed up of their inability to hold onto results as he told TNT Sports: "Every time we concede a goal we had many chances to score again.

"I think at the end of the game we had like four chances to score a goal but we have to get our heads up and understand that sometimes it's about finding another pass, finding the player that is free.

"Trying to get the best one in the best position and take the chance ourselves, we have to look for the team first and after, for ourselves."

4 Fernandes criticised their lack of ability to kill games off Credit: Getty

He added: "It's too bad to be honest, I don't want to be too negative but for what we've been doing in the Champions League is not enough, we have to control our games every time.

"It's not the first game we've had like this, even with FC Copenhagen, I understand we had one player less but we scored to make it 3-2 and we had to secure the result.

"We have to understand in these kind of games, in these kind of stages, you have to be smart enough and manage the game better."

United have also conceded 14 goals in the Champions League group stages, a new and unwanted record for the club that could get worse when they face Bayern in the final match.

Onana has been criticised for his role in Galatasaray's second goal as he allowed Ziyech's shot to spill under him and into the net, although Erik ten Hag says collectively the defence isn't up to scratch.

"We're winning and then we're losing, we should have taken three points," the United boss told TNT Sports. "But there's also in more games, at home against Galatasaray, away in Copenhagen, we play so good so I have to make a big compliment to the team.

"But also in the same moment I have to criticise the team and us as coaching staff, me as a manager. We aren't defending good enough, we are leading 3-1 and we can't afford such mistakes because that makes the difference."

4 Onana had another disappointing performance in goal for United Credit: Getty

"Every goal has it's own story," he added. "The first is a transition moment, we spoke about quick release and we don't block the middle.

"The second is an unnecessary free-kick but then we have to defend the free-kick better. The third one we are very good and organised but we got run off and we are in an overload there.

"So, our mistakes can never happen in the Champions League, you get punished for it, so we have to learn from that."

However, Aston Villa legend Gabby Agbonlahor insists Onana needs to take a significant chunk of the blame for United's collapse on Wednesday night.

"I feel sorry for Onana," Agbonlahor told talkSPORT. "There's a clip of him throwing his gloves to the ground after the game. He's angry with himself.

"But those two free-kicks... you can't score those. They're easy saves and he's cost his team.

"If Onana doesn't make those two mistakes, I think United go on to win 4-1.

"He's so laid back on the ball that he can't switch on, he's late to dive for the free-kicks."

4 United now face a huge task in their hope of reaching the last 16 Credit: AFP

United's 12 goals in the group stage is the fifth highest tally out of any club but their defensive woes have been their downfall, and former defender Rio Ferdinand cites a lack of balance as to why.

The 2007/08 Champions League winner with Man United said: "I think they've got to look at themselves.

"You can't go into a Champions League campaign and score nine goals in three away games and have one point at the end of it. I think that shows you that there's a lack of balance in the team at the moment.

"Yes they can get goals and yes they are attacking at will and creating chances, many of them coming through Bruno. But I think defensively, they just made mistakes, I think the goalkeeper today has to hold his hands up and say, 'Yep, I was at fault for a couple of goals.

"He should do better. But, I think the manager will be scratching his head and thinking, 'The game plan first-half worked perfectly,' and then all of a sudden they score a goal, it changes the dynamic of the game.

"They were 2-0 up, 2-1, and you're thinking, 'Wow, I set the team up perfectly well, they execute it but then a mistake cost us,' and at 3-1, the same again.

"So I think there's a lot of question marks in the performances and the way they're going about things at the moment but balance for me is one of the key aspects that they've got to really find.

"We mentioned in commentary, scars from throwing away leads, those are hard to get away, you've got to really manage games and he mentioned that himself Bruno, you've got to go out managing games correctly.

"They've got to do that not over one or two or three games, they've got to do that over a period of games now so they can erase those scars that they've created and they'e grown through bad results and throwing away leads, especially in Europe." It is 30 years since Manchester United’s most famous trip to Istanbul with Champions League elimination on the line. Galatasaray created an unwelcome hell that Cerberus would have been proud of and a night of sin ended with Alex Ferguson’s side being dumped out of Europe.

United, realistically, required a win to progress after drawing 3‑3 in the first leg of the second‑round tie at Old Trafford but the atmosphere in Turkey subdued the visitors and the second leg stuttered to a goalless draw. Eric Cantona was sent off late on for his frustrations with the referee and the home team’s addiction to timewasting. There was a post-match melee in the tunnel involving the United squad and riot police as the trip ended like it began – with intimidation. Many of United’s team froze, unable to deal with the ferocious and vociferous atmosphere they faced.

The match on Wednesday is not a knockout game but in truth the scenario is not much different. Defeat against Galatasaray would again end United’s Champions League’s campaign prematurely while a win, assuming Copenhagen lose against Bayern Munich, would put qualifying for the latter stages back in their hands. United will face the same atmosphere as they did 30 years ago because the home fans know victory would turn their subsequent trip to Denmark into a potential shootout for who goes through with Bayern, with the achievement of knocking out a club with the storied history of United only adding to the pleasure.

In 1993 everyone was on a learning curve at United. It was their first return to Europe’s top table after an absence of 24 years. Much of the squad had won the European Cup Winners’ Cup in 1990‑91 but this was a clear step up. They defeated Honved before needing a late intervention from Cantona to avoid a deficit heading to Istanbul, where they were greeted at the airport by a horde of Galatasaray supporters providing a wall of noise and the infamous “Welcome to Hell” banner.

“That was our first foray in the Champions League and we were expected to go through,” says the former United defender Gary Pallister, who was injured for the game and so had to watch proceedings from the stands. “The hostility is something [to learn from] – I never experienced anything like that in the rest of my career. You look at that and think it can’t get any worse.”

Thirty years on United head to Turkey knowing they have rarely been convincing in the Champions League in recent years. A 3-1 away win against Paris Saint-Germain in the 2018-19 round of 16 after losing the home leg 2-0 was the last time they won a crunch match. In 2020‑21, they lost their final two group games and were eliminated, while back in 2015-16, Wolfsburg won the deciding group match to knock out United.

Mauro Icardi celebrates scoring the winner for Galatasaray in their 3-2 win at Old Trafford in early October. Photograph: Darren Staples/AFP/Getty Images

When it comes to pressure in the Champions League of late, United do not cope well and there are few events trickier than a night in Istanbul. Pallister smiled at a bell boy at the team hotel and got a finger across the throat in response, Brian McClair had a cleaner bang on his bedroom ceiling in the night and other players received numerous phone calls to disrupt their sleep. The current squad could face the same level of malevolence and need to be prepared.

United have done little learning in recent times, repeating the same failures in Europe’s elite competition. It would not be a disgrace to lose against a good Galatasaray team, especially given Erik ten Hag is missing key players, but if the worst does happen, everyone will need to come out of the experience stronger. Regardless of the result, it should be a night of education when it comes to the demands of the Champions League.

Six of United’s squad that failed in 1993 went on to win the competition six years later. “It did galvanise us,” says Mike Phelan, who started in central midfield 30 years ago. “Winning the Cup Winners’ Cup took us to another level and we felt pretty comfortable with each other and felt we could develop into a serious team, and I think going into the Champions League was one of those moments where we expected to do well – the experiences along the way were great and took us to the next level further down the line.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

“I think that it is important sometimes that you have to go through those moments to realise what it takes. There are elements that happen in a football match and elements that happen in the buildup to a football match, so you have to experience all those things if you want to be successful.”

The win against Everton on Sunday was defined by two teenagers, Alejandro Garnacho and Kobbie Mainoo. Garnacho scored with an incredible overhead kick and Mainoo impressed on what was his full Premier League debut, which could earn him a start in Turkey and an education in European football.

Around them are players who have succeeded on hostile nights. But if they thought Goodison Park was unwelcoming, they will be in for a surprise on Wednesday and will need to find communal coping mechanisms. Fail to do so and they will just have to live and learn for next time. Eddy Cue, in a dark suit, peered down at the monitor in front of him. The screens in the Washington, DC, courtroom had briefly malfunctioned and left witnesses with only binders, but now the tech was up and running — showing an image of three iPhones, each demonstrating a part of the phone’s setup process. Cue squinted down at the screen.

“The resolution on this is terrible,” he said. “You should get a Mac.” That got some laughs in an otherwise staid and quiet courtroom. Judge Amit Mehta, presiding over the case, leaned into his microphone and responded, “If Apple would like to make a donation…” That got even bigger laughs. Then everybody got back down to business.

Cue was on the stand as a witness in US v. Google, the landmark antitrust trial over Google’s search business. Cue is one of the highest-profile witnesses in the case so far, in part because the deal between Google and Apple — which makes Google the default search engine on all Apple devices and pays Apple billions of dollars a year — is central to the US Department of Justice’s case against Google.

Cue had two messages: Apple believes in protecting its users’ privacy, and it also believes in Google. Whether those two statements can be simultaneously true became the question of the day.

Apple is in court because of something called the Information Services Agreement, or ISA: a deal that makes Google’s search engine the default on Apple’s products. The ISA has been in place since 2002, but Cue was responsible for negotiating its current iteration with Google CEO Sundar Pichai in 2016. In testimony today, the Justice Department grilled Cue about the specifics of the deal.

When the two sides renegotiated, Cue said on the stand, Apple wanted a higher percentage of the revenue Google made from Apple users it directed toward the search engine. Discussion of specific numbers was reserved for closed court sessions, but Cue wanted Apple to get a higher percentage, while Pichai wanted to keep the deal as it was. They eventually compromised on some other number we weren’t told in court, and Google has been paying Apple that amount since.

“I always felt like it was in Google’s best interest, and our best interest, to get a deal done.”

Meagan Bellshaw, a Justice Department lawyer, asked Cue if he would have walked away from the deal if the two sides couldn’t agree on a revenue-share figure. Cue said he’d never really considered that an option: “I always felt like it was in Google’s best interest, and our best interest, to get a deal done.” Cue also argued that the deal was about more than economics and that Apple never seriously considered switching to another provider or building its own search product. “Certainly there wasn’t a valid alternative to Google at the time,” Cue said. He said there still isn’t one.

That question — whether Apple picked Google because it’s the most lucrative choice or the best product — was a key part of Cue’s testimony and, in fact, a key part of the DOJ’s entire case against Google. The Justice Department is focused on the deals Google makes — with Apple but also with Samsung and Mozilla and many others — to ensure it is the default search engine on practically every platform.

Bellshaw asked Cue a number of questions about the iPhone setup process. Those three screenshots showed the Appearance screen that shows up when you first boot up your iPhone so you can pick font sizes; the location-tracking prompt that appears when you open Maps; and the App Tracking Transparency pop-up that tells you when an app wants to collect your data. Cue objected to all these things being considered part of setup, but Bellshaw’s point was that Apple offers its users a choice about lots of things, big and small, and that search could be one of them.

“We try to get people up and running as fast as possible.”

Cue acknowledged that the ISA didn’t allow Apple to offer users a choice of search engines during setup but also said he wouldn’t want to do that anyway. “We try to get people up and running as fast as possible,” he said. “Setup is just critical stuff.” Showing people a bunch of search engines they’ve never heard of would just be a bad user experience, he argued; even Cue couldn’t remember the names of some of the alternatives to Google. “We make Google be the default search engine,” he said, “because we’ve always thought it was the best. We pick the best one and let users easily change it.” (“Easily” is a persistent point of contention in this trial — DuckDuckGo’s CEO, who testified last week, claimed it takes “too many steps” to switch.)

As for the privacy pop-ups? This is where Bellshaw began to press on how exactly Apple decided Google had the best product. She asked Cue if Apple believes user privacy is important, to which he said, “Absolutely.” Then, she showed a series of emails and slides in which Cue and Apple railed against Google’s privacy policies. Cue readily agreed. “We’ve always thought we had better privacy than Google,” he told Bellshaw. He said that one provision of the ISA with Google was that Google had to allow people to search without logging in and that Apple has done things in Safari and around its platforms to make it harder for Google or anyone else to track users.

Bellshaw never quite said it, but the DOJ’s implication seemed to be that, essentially, Google is a privacy menace anathema to everything Apple believes is important to its users, but Apple gives it a central place in its platform because Google pays it so handsomely. Bellshaw asked Cue to review some of Apple’s financial filings. Isn’t it true that the ISA represents a significant portion of Apple’s profits, she asked? Cue said that’s not how Apple looks at it because it doesn’t account for all the work Apple did to make its platform so appealing that an agreement like this could work as well as it does.

Later, after a closed session in the courtroom and a break for lunch, Google lawyer John Schmidtlein led Cue through a history of the Google / Apple partnership, and a history of the Safari browser. Cue noted that Safari’s combination of URL and search bar was a user interface innovation, and the seamless Google integration was part of what made it work. In early promotional materials for Safari, Schmidtlein pointed out, the Google integration was nearly always mentioned.

“Before 2003,” Cue said, “the way that you searched the web was you had to go in and you had to type in google.com in the URL field, or you could type in another URL. We came up with the idea that if you type anything in the URL field that’s not a URL, it just goes to search.”

Schmidtlein’s overall point was that Google helped Safari succeed not by forcing Apple’s hand, but by being a great product that integrated seamlessly with Apple’s own stuff. He referenced Apple’s deals with Yahoo and Bing that make those services easy to find, and both men argued that switching search engines is so easy as to be a non-issue. Bellshaw briefly stepped up to rebut that notion, and that was it for Cue’s testimony.

At least, that’s all the testimony we saw. Like so many things in this trial, the star witness was kept mostly under wraps thanks to complaints and worries about revealing confidential numbers and corporate secrets. But the questions put to Cue were the same ones the DOJ is going to keep asking: is Google really the best search engine, or is it just the one writing the biggest checks? And if those checks went away, what would the search engine market look like? Cue said Apple’s never really thought about it. Google said Apple would be silly to do so. And the Justice Department thinks it’s about time Apple starts doing so. More from the US v Google trial: Vertical search, pre-installs and the case of Firefox/Yahoo

We’re nearly two months into the Justice Department’s landmark antitrust case against Google — one of the biggest fights in tech antitrust since the U.S. took Microsoft to trial in the 1990s — and the revelations just keep getting juicier.

In our last roundup, we learned how Google spent $26.3 billion in 2021 making itself the default search engine across platforms and how Google tried to have Chrome preinstalled on iPhones. Over the past couple of weeks, more of the inner workings of Google has come to light, including some of the search engine’s most lucrative search queries, what the revenue-share agreements between Google and Android OEMs look like and why Expedia has a bone to pick with Google.

Before we go into some of these tidbits…

Why the Google vs. U.S. antitrust case matters

The government has argued that Google uses its platforms and deals with partners to block out any competition in search or advertising, thus hindering competitors from accessing the data they’d need to improve their products. If Judge Amit Mehta rules against Google, the search giant may have to change its behavior and share its APIs with third-party developers. It may also be banned from making anticompetitive and exclusive deals with smartphone and computer manufacturers and wireless carriers. Google might end up having to turn over all or most of the data it has collected to other search engines so they can improve their products and attract more users. The DOJ has said that Google gets 16 times more data than Bing does everyday. Enforcers want to show that antitrust law remains relevant and that even though Google is basically the God of the internet, it’s still no match for the U.S. law. The Google outcome could also have a ripple effect on other Big Tech cases. The FTC sued Amazon in September for using anticompetitive and unfair strategies to illegally maintain its monopoly power. The DOJ has been investigating Apple for years over the company’s policy for third-party apps on its devices and whether it unfairly favors its own products. There’s an ongoing case between the FTC and Facebook, wherein the agency calls on Facebook to sell Instagram and WhatsApp.

This isn’t Google’s only antitrust case in trial right now. The search engine giant last week settled a separate antitrust lawsuit with dating site Match Group. On November 6, Google went to trial with Fortnite maker Epic Games. The latter hopes to prove that Google engages in anticompetitive behavior with regard to its Android app store, Google Play, and its commission structure.

Now, onto the roundup!

A window into Google’s most popular search queries

Judge Amit Mehta ruled to make a list public that provides a glimpse of which search terms make Google the most money. The list of popular search terms ordered by revenue includes 20 terms that were lucrative for the week of September 22, 2018. Information like revenue per search term, how many queries each of those terms got, along with a separate list of popular search terms ordered by queries (not revenue), were all redacted. The list we can see is as follows:

iPhone 8

iPhone 8 plus

Auto insurance

Car insurance

Cheap flights

Car insurance quotes

DirecTV

Online colleges

AT&T

Hulu

iPhone

Uber

Spectrum

Comcast

Xfinity

Insurance quotes

Free credit report

Cheap car insurance

AARP

LifeLock

There is, in reality, little surprise here. We’ve already established that Google and Apple have a long and mutually beneficial relationship, even while competing, so it’s not surprising to see three Apple search-related queries bringing in the big bucks — not least since September 22, 2017 was the official release date of the iPhone 8.

Meanwhile, queries like “car insurance,” “cheap flights” and “credit report” are perennial favorites and they speak to how much Google dominates vertical search — that is, search in very specific market categories. As for LifeLock… the big Equifax data breach of 2017 was a hot topic in September 2017 and LifeLock was making a big push to win business with people who wanted to buy identity theft protection.

Revenue-shares to pre-install Google apps on Androids

Jamie Rosenberg, a Google employee who focuses on Android and Google Play, testified in Google’s defense on November 8. He said that the competition between Google and Apple is “as intense as it gets,” reports Bloomberg.

Rosenberg explained how Google gets manufacturers to sign a mobile app distribution agreement (MADA) that requires Android smartphone makers (like Samsung or Oppo) to pre-load a bundle of 11 Google apps on the device, including Search, Chrome and Play. They don’t have to be the default choices, he said.

Google also has revenue share agreements (RSAs) with smartphone makers and wireless carriers (like Verizon) that require them to set Google search and Chrome web browser as defaults. Rosenberg defended the move and said it was because Google apps [like Search] are “best in class.” The RSAs also motivate other companies to make or sell more Android devices, he said.

Expedia complains of too many ads on search, expensive ad payments

On November 1, Barry Diller, chair of Expedia and IAC, testified about his concerns regarding the increasing number of ads in search results having an impact on organic listings.

“I must say I’m on the edge of revolt now that Google’s actions are so punitive, not just for Expedia but also for IAC and all the players that depend upon something of a level playing field,” wrote Diller in a letter to Google back in 2019, according to Bloomberg.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai fired back that Google’s travel listings was one of the most popular experiences the company built.

Expedia execs also testified about the cost of ads and how increases had no impact on search results. On October 19, Expedia’s former chief operating officer, Jeff Hurst, told the court the company’s ad fees increased tenfold from $21 million in 2015 to $290 million in 2019. And yet, Expedia’s traffic from Google did not increase. The implication was that this was due to direct competition from Google itself. Hurst pointed out that Google began sharing its own flight and hotel data in search results in that period, according to The Seattle Times.

European antitrust fine spurs Google to beef up search engine quality

The government argued on November 10 that Google only endeavored to enhance its search engine in the European Union after it was hit by a €5 billion antitrust fine in 2018, internal documents revealed, according to Bloomberg.

The EU’s antitrust order forced Google to offer Android phone users a screen with five search engine options to choose from, according to the DOJ. In response, Google enacted a plan, which execs dubbed “Go Big in Europe,” to enhance search results in France and Germany in 2019 and 2020 with more local content: news, post-game soccer video highlights, information on local television options for streaming, and pronunciation practice for different language. The aim was to incentivize users to click on Google’s home screen, rather than the competition’s.

That revelation effectively supports the Justice Department’s argument that Google, without the push of competition, has little incentive to improve its products, a classic consequence in a monopoly.

Mozilla digs in on Google’s supremacy in search

Interestingly, on November 1 Mozilla CEO Mitchell Baker provided a defense of Google’s quality as a search engine, even in “competitive” environments. Specifically, Baker recounted how, Mozilla “failed” when it switched Firefox’s default search engine from Google to Yahoo.

Quick backstory: Yahoo inked a deal with Mozilla way back in 2014 to pay the browser maker $375 million annually to be the default search engine on Firefox. At the time, Google was offering $276 million, said Baker. Reader, that was a bad deal.

“I felt strongly that Yahoo was not delivering the search experience we needed and had contracted for,” she said, according to Bloomberg. The executive said Yahoo had promised to reduce the number of ads and offer less user tracking, but ended up gradually serving users more ads anyway.

“The number of users who stayed with Firefox declined noticeably during the years when Yahoo was the default,” said Baker.

Baker, who was providing a recorded deposition for Google’s defense, noted that Mozilla’s users apparently wanted and expected Google.

However, that is not the full story. Yahoo was already well behind Google in terms of search technology at that point. But also, Firefox was very well behind Chrome, which ended 2014 with nearly 50% market share and ended 2017 (when Google got prime default search position on Firefox) at nearly 65% of all web browser usage on desktop: and mobile is even more skewed to Chrome. In other words, the number of Firefox users might have been declining for other reasons, although pushing the blame on Yahoo certainly works in Google’s favor here!

The trial continues… Picking the best class in Baldurs Gate 3 is one of the most important decisions you’ll make in the game — and you have to do it right at the start, with minimal context to work off.

Your class mostly determines how your character will fight in Baldur’s Gate, but with 12 classes — and 46 subclasses total across them all — it’s not really an easy decision. Here’s what to know about finding the best class (and the best subclass) for you in Baldur’s Gate 3.

All BG3 classes are ‘good’

The classes in Baldur’s Gate 3 — and in pen-and-paper D&D, for that matter — are all fairly well-balanced. There’s no single best class (barrelmancer aside) in Baldur’s Gate 3, and the game gives you as many opportunities for creative problem solving as it does for punching. Finding the best class really just boils down to how you want to play. Even when playing solo, you’ll still manage the rest of your party, so you’ll get to experiment with multiple classes at once.

BG3 classes have strengths outside of combat

Your character’s class is mostly about combat, but the underlying Ability Score that it relies on affects the other skills you’ll use to interact with the world. Baldur’s Gate 3 assigns your Ability Scores automatically (though you can tweak it in the character creator), so each class’s primary ability will be your highest score.

Bards and Sorcerers are both Charisma-based classes, for example. Their high Charisma will also make them good at skills like Persuasion, Deception, and Intimidation. Out of combat, those classes will be better at talking their way out of (and into) trouble and lying. Wisdom-based classes like Clerics or Druids will be more insightful and perceptive of their surroundings.

Should you play a custom or an Origin character in BG3?

Baldur’s Gate 3 gives you the option to play as an Origin character, meaning you can just choose one of the NPCs from your party and play as them right out of the gate. It’s a perfectly fine way to play if you really don’t want to go through the process of picking out a race and background for your character.

That said, you’ll also be limited to that character’s predetermined story. It’s a bit more work at the beginning, but you’ll have a lot more freedom to experience the entire story of Baldur’s Gate 3 if you make a custom character. With all that in mind...

Which BG3 class (and subclass) is best for you?

Distinctions like caster vs. puncher or melee vs. ranged don’t really work for Baldur’s Gate 3 (or D&D). There’s a lot of overlap in the classes — especially as you level up. And that means there’s no easy way to say one class is best (or even better). Instead, focus on what you want to do (or how you want to do it), and go from there.

We’ll list them all below ranked (subjectively) by how difficult they are to play. We’ve put the caster classes toward the more difficult end simply because they’ve got more to manage with their spells and spell slots — punching things is easier than memorizing spells.

Best melee class for beginners: Fighter

Nothing against Fighters here, but they’re the easiest class to wrap your head around. You’re not going to need to manage spells or Ki Points. Instead, you’ll see a baddie and then you’ll stab said baddie.

Fighters start out as a very straightforward melee class. With high strength, they get all armors and shields, and choose a method of combat to focus on (and get buffs to). They also get a way to heal themselves and way to get a second attack once per short rest.

At level 3, you get to choose a subclass from Battle Master, Eldritch Knight, and Champion. Battlemasters get a set of Superiority Dice that let you perform Maneuvers to control the flow of battle and the battlefield. Eldritch Knights add magic into the Fighter’s arsenal. Champions keep it simple with a better change to deal a Critical Hit (for double damage).

Champion is the best subclass for a Fighter. Consult our Fighter build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best ranged class for beginners: Ranger

Rangers are agile hunters that focus on Dexterity as their primary Ability. Rangers are an interesting mix of melee, stealth, skills, and magic. That also makes it harder to get the most out of the class. Rangers get Light and Medium Armors and some of the more basic weapons.

Rangers also make a lot of choices during character creation (and leveling up) that determine how they play. At level 1, you’ll choose a Favored Enemy — a preferred quarry — and a preferred environment that grants you some magical spells.

At level 3, you get to choose a Ranger subclass from Beast Master, Gloom Stalker, or Hunter. Beast Masters get a Companion animal that fights along side you, Gloom Stalkers focus on stealth, and Hunters get to specialize their melee abilities.

Hunter is the best subclass for a Ranger. Consult our Ranger build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for damage: Barbarian

Barbarians are all about combat. They get light and medium armor (and shields), but they’ve also got the option to keep their AC up even without wearing armor. For weapons, Barbarians get a wide range of heavy hitters like battleaxes and warhammers. Every Barbarian gets the Rage ability that lets them hit even harder and reduce damage during combat (and only during combat).

When you hit level 3, you get to choose from the Wildheart, Berserker, or Wild Magic subclasses. Wildheart lets you modify your Rage ability with animal-themed tweaks like healing, jumping, or a stampede. Berserker is a lot more straightforward and focuses on hitting (extra) things and throwing. And Wild Magic adds a magical flair to your Rage with a random magical effect and improved saving throws against magic for you and your allies.

Berserker is the best subclass for a Barbarian. Consult our Barbarian build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for magic: Druid

Druids are the nature-based casters of Baldur’s Gate 3. Most of their magic is nature- or animal-themed and they get Skills to match. What they lack in armor proficiencies — they only get Light and Medium Armor — they make up for with the ability to shapeshift into a badger, wolf, spider, or cat.

At level 3, Druids pick from the Circle of the Land, Circle of the Moon, and Circle of Spores subclasses. Circle of Land gets you some extra magic and the ability to cast more spells throughout the day, Circle of the Moon adds a bear to the repertoire of animal shapes you can shift into, and Circle of Spores adds in some extra fungus- and decay-based magic.

Circle of the Moon is the best subclass for a Druid. Consult our Druid build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for stealth: Rogue

Rogues are Dexterity-based, sneaky fighters. They only get Light Armor, so they have to focus on staying unseen and quick. Their weapons tend to be simple and focus on ones that have the Finesse type — meaning you can add your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength. All Rogues get to use Dash (double movement), Disengage (don’t provoke Opportunity Attacks), and Hide as Bonus Actions. They also get Sneak Attack combat actions that let them deal extra damage whenever they have Advantage.

Level 3 Rogues choose from the Thief, Arcane Trickster, and Assassin subclasses. Thief Rogues get an extra bonus action, Arcane Tricksters mix in magic, and Assassins get advantages over surprised or unprepared enemies.

Thief is the best subclass for a Rogue. Consult our Rogue build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for melee and magic: Paladin

Paladins start out mixing in (Divine) magic with their melee abilities. They’re the most magic-focused of the melee classes. They get all armors and shields, along with a good mix of weapons. Choosing from the three subclasses — Oath of the Ancients, Oath of Devotion, and Oath of Vengeance — determines what kind of magic you get. Oath of the Ancients adds in healing magic, Oath of Devotion gets defense-focused magic, and Oath of Vengeance adds offensive magic. Paladins also get a handful of other spells for dealing out even more holy justice.

Oath of the Ancients is the best subclass for a Paladin. Consult our Paladin build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for speed: Monk

Monks are a melee class kind of like Fighters, but with a lot more pizzazz. Their best Ability is Dexterity, so their combat is more martial arts than swordplay. Monks don't get armor and only have a limited set of weapons available, but they make up for it with Unarmed Strikes that deal extra damage. Monks take a little more finesse to play than Fighters.

Monk subclasses unlock at level 3 and include Way of the Four Elements, Way of the Open Hand, and Way of Shadow. Way of the Four Elements mixes in spells with your Monk abilities (and uses renamed spells from the caster classes). Way of the Open Hand expands your attacks to include things like knocking down enemies or pushing them with extra melee attacks. And Way of Shadow makes your Monk sneaky and stealthy (think of it as a ninja subclass).

Way of the Open Palm is the best subclass for a Monk. Consult our Monk build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best magic class for beginners: Warlock

Warlocks are casters that made a deal with a higher power for their magic. They play a lot like Sorcerers, but with a slight emphasis on more academic Skills and fewer spells. Warlocks get Light Armor, so they’re a little less squishy than Sorcerers.

Like Sorcerers, you’ll pick your Warlock subclass during character creation. You’ll choose from The Fiend, The Great Old One, and The Archfey subclasses that are all themed around where your magic comes from — and determine some of the spells you can use. The Fiend Warlocks get their magic from a demon-like fiend and have hell-themed spells, the Great Old One is more Lovecraftian horror-themed, and the Archfey draws power from a powerful Fey being.

Great Old One is the best subclass for a Sorcerer. Consult our Sorcerer build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best healer class: Cleric

Clerics are the other side of the Paladin’s mix of magic and melee. They’re not quite as frontline in combat with only Light and Medium armors, but they get more (and more powerful) spells. Clerics also get an extra boost with Channel Divinity that gets them an extra (Divine) magic ability like Turning Undead to drive away zombies or Guided Strike that gives a +10 to Attack Rolls.

When you make a Cleric, you choose a subclass (Domain) from a list of seven: Life, Light, Trickery, Knowledge, Nature, Tempest, and War. Each Domain has different spells, actions, and even proficiencies associated with hit. Broadly, Life Domain focuses on healing, Light emphasizes Radiant and Fire magic (in and out of combat), Trickery is good for sneaking, Knowledge gets extra Skills out of combat and brain-based spells, Nature is flavored a little more like a Druid, Tempest is a little more combat and Thunder damage-focused, and War is all about combat.

Light Domain is the best subclass for a Cleric. Consult our Cleric build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best support class: Bard

Bards are a specialized kind of caster class that focus more on performance and charm than a weighty list of spells. Bards only get Light Armor and focus on Charisma as their primary stat, so they rarely belong on the front line of a fight. Where Bards come into their own, though, is with Bardic Inspiration — a way to boost the rolls of their allies — and their spells that are a nice mix of utility and offensive magic.

Bards get three subclasses at level 3: College of Lore, College of Valor, and College of Swords. College of Lore Bards get a lot of useful skills to use outside of combat and get to use their Bardic Inspiration to make enemies weaker, College of Valor Bards help their allies hit even harder, and College of Swords Bards focus on a swashbuckling style of combat.

College of Valor is the best subclass for a Bard. Consult our Bard build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for magic damage: Wizard

Wizards are the archetypical caster class. They are the only Intelligence-based class in Baldur’s Gate 3 and have the most spells — and the most spell slots to cast them — of all of the casters. Wizards don’t get any armor and are limited to just daggers and quarterstaffs (quarterstaves?) in combat, so they’re going to rely on magic to do any damage.

Your Wizard subclass is chosen when you create the character. You’ll choose from eight schools of magic: Abjuration, Conjuration, Divination, Enchantment, Evocation, Illusion, Necromancy, and Transmutation. Each subclass gets an extra ability themed to the school of magic. Broadly speaking, Abjuration is about protection and defense, Conjuration is about creating something from nothing, Divination gets to foresee (and change) rolls, Enchantment is about charming and controlling minds, Evocation shapes and controls spells, Illusion is about trickery, Necromancy controls life and death, and Transmutation focuses on alchemy and changing the world around you.

Evocation is the best subclass for a Wizard. Consult our Wizard build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

Best class for social interactions: Sorcerer

Sorcerers get their magic from within themselves. Sorcerers are the most flexible and varied in the spells they can use. Their primary Ability is Charisma, so they’re also good at dialogue-heavy encounters out of combat. Sorcerers don’t get any armor, so you’ll have to keep them out of melee combat most of the time.

You’ll pick your Sorcerer subclass when you create your character from the Wild Magic, Draconic Bloodline, and Storm Sorcery subclasses. Wild Magic leans into the chaotic and untamed nature of magic, Draconic Bloodline gives a dragon-based flavor to your magic, and Storm Sorcery lets you Fly whenever you cast a spell.

Draconic Bloodline is the best subclass for a Sorcerer. Consult our Sorcerer build guide for more details on why, and to see which skills and feats to pick.

For more information on the classes in Baldur’s Gate 3, consult our overviews on the Barbarian, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Fighter, Monk, Paladin, Ranger, Rogue, Sorcerer, Warlock, and Wizard classes. The Warlock is one of twelve classes in Baldur’s Gate 3. Warlocks are extreme knowledge-seekers who are willing to form a pact with otherwordly beings in order to gain ancient secrets that’ll bolster their magical arsenal.

To deal with such powerful creatures, Warlocks need to have strong mental power. They need to be able to make a deal with the devil and survive. As such, their primary ability score is Charisma.

There’s no single best class in Baldur’s Gate 3, and the game gives you as many opportunities for creative problem solving as it does for punching. Finding the best class really just boils down to how you want to play. Even when playing solo, you’ll still manage the rest of your party, so you’ll get to experiment with multiple classes at once.

Read on to find out everything you need to know about the Warlock class in Baldur’s Gate 3, and learn all about the best Warlock subclass, feats, and build.

Is Warlock the best class for you in BG3?

Warlocks sacrifice the number of spells that they know for sheer power. Every Warlock spell slot is the same — the highest level available — and they recharge on a short rest instead of a long rest. Warlocks aren’t as versatile as other caster classes, but what they do, they do well.

Warlocks are a great class for you if you want to play a dedicated caster class, but don’t want to deal with all the prep work that classes like Wizards require. You’ll still get to use (a lot of) magic, but you won't have to manage a binder full of spells every morning.

Warlock class features

Hit Points

Hit Dice — 1d8 per warlock level

1d8 per warlock level Hit Points at 1st Level — 8 + your Constitution modifier

— 8 + your Constitution modifier Hit Points at higher levels — 5 + your Constitution modifier per warlock level after 1st

Cantrips

The Warlock starts with two cantrips from the Warlock cantrip list.

Baldur’s Gate 3 Warlock Cantrips Cantrip Description Cantrip Description Blade Ward Take only half the damage from Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing attacks Bone Chill Prevent the target from healing until your next turn. An undead target receives Disadvantage on Attack Rolls. Eldritch Blast Conjure 1 beam(s) of crackling energy. Friends Gain Advantage on Charisma Checks against a non-hostile creature. Mage Hand Create a spectral hand that can manipulate and interact with objects. Minor Illusion Create an illusion that compels nearby creatures to investigate. Poison Spray Project a puff of noxious gas. True Strike Gain Advantage on your next Attack Roll.

Spells

The Warlock starts with two spells from the Warlock spell list, two of which are exclusive to your subclass.

Baldur’s Gate 3 Warlock Spells Spells Description Spells Description Armor of Agathys Gain 5 temporary hitpoints and deal 5 Cold damage to any creature that hits you with a melee attack. Arms of Hadar Prevent targets from using reactions. Burning Hands Each flammable target is hit with 3-18 Fire damage. (The Fiend exclusive) Charm Person Charm a humanoid to prevent it from attacking you. You gain Advantage on Charisma Checks in dialogue. Command Command a creature to flee, move closer, freeze, drop to the ground or drop its weapon. (The Fiend exclusive) Dissonant Whispers Frighten a creature: it will be easier to hit and cannot move. (The Great Old One exclusive) Expeditious Retreat Gain Dash immediately and as a bonus action on each of your turns until this spell ends. Faerie Fire All targets within the light turn visible, and Attack Rolls against them have advantage. (The Archfey exclusive) Hellish Rebuke React to your next attacker with flames that deal 2-20 Fire damage. Hex Make your attacks deal an addition 1-6 Necrotic damage to the target and give it Disadvantage on an Ability of your choosing. Protection from Evil and Good Protect an ally against the attacks and powers of aberrations, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. Tasha's Hideous Laughter Leave a creature Prone with laughter, without the ability to get up. (The Great Old One exclusive) Sleep Put creatures into a magical slumber. Select targets up to a combined 24 hit points. (The Archfey exclusive) Witch Bolt Link yourself to a target with a bolt of lightning. Deal an additional 1-12 Lightning damage each turn by activating it.

Actions

Warlocks have one action, “Fey Presence,” which is exclusive to The Archfey subclass.

Features

Warlock Spell Slot — Used to cast Warlock spells, which can be regained by taking a short rest

Proficiencies

Weapons — Simple Weapons

— Simple Weapons Armor — Light Armor

— Light Armor Saving Throws — Wisdom and Charisma

— Wisdom and Charisma Skills — Choose two skills from Arcana, Deception, History, Intimidation, Investigation, Nature, and Religion

Warlock subclasses

The Warlock has a total of three subclasses, which are unlocked at at the beginning of the game. During character creation, you must pick the otherworldy patron that you’ve decided to serve.

The Fiend

Warlocks with The Fiend subclass have struck a deal with a hellish fiend who strives for corruption and destruction. If you forge a pact with a fiend, you’ll receive a feature exclusive to The Fiend called “Dark One’s Blessing,” which will grant you four temporary hit points whenever you defeat a hostile creature.

The Fiend also has two exclusive spells — Burning Hands and Command.

The Great Old One

Those serving The Great Old One are bound to a mysterious being from the Far Realm, who might not even know you exist, The Great Old One will grant you a feature exclusive to this subclass called “Mortal Reminder,” which will frighten a creature and any nearby enemies after you land a critical hit unless they succeed a Wisdom saving throw.

The Great Old One also has two exclusive spells — Dissonant Whispers and Tasha’s Hideous Laughter.

The Archfey

If you choose The Archfey as your subclass, your patron is a lord or lady of the fey, a creature from before the time of mortal races. If you’re bound to The Archfey, you’ll gain an action named “Fey Presence,” which will charm or frighten nearby foes.

The Archfey also has two exclusive spells — Faerie Fire and Sleep.

Best Warlock subclass and build in BG3

Baldur’s Gate 3 races don’t really have any direct impact on your class, but certain races and subraces come with features that play well with certain classes like extra movement or proficiency with certain weapons. For Warlocks, it’s best to focus on weapon and armor proficiencies:

Drow ’s Drow Weapon Training adds weapons like the rapiers and hand crossbows

’s Drow Weapon Training adds weapons like the rapiers and hand crossbows Humans ’ and Half-Elves ’ Civil Militia add spears, pikes, halberds, and glaives along with shields

’ and ’ Civil Militia add spears, pikes, halberds, and glaives along with shields Githyanki Martial Prodigy means you get medium armor along with longswords and greatswords

Martial Prodigy means you get medium armor along with longswords and greatswords Dwarven Combat Training gets you battleaxes, handaxes, light hammers, and warhammers. The Shield Dwarf subrace also gets you Medium Armor

When you’re creating and leveling up your Warlock, Charisma (for spellcasting) is your most important stat. Your second most important stat kind of depends on how you play outside of combat, but Constitution is also a good option for the hit points — Warlocks, like Sorcerers, have a tendency to be glass cannons. Make Charisma your highest stat and Constitution your second highest.

You’ll pick your Warlock subclass at level 1, but the pact you choose here is actually less important than the Eldritch Invocation you get at level 2 — that said, go with the Great Old One for the most broadly useful features. Your Eldritch Invocation powers up your Eldritch Blast spell — the bread-and-butter spell for Warlocks — and turns it into an Agonizing Blast.

Best Warlock feats in BG3

Every four levels, you’ll get the option to either increase your stats or choose a Feat. Feats are special talents that add features to your character. If you’re happy with your stats and start taking Feats, Warlocks can benefit from:

Actor . Your Charisma Increases by 1, to a maximum of 20. Your Proficiency Bonus is also doubled for Deception and Performance Checks.

. Your Charisma Increases by 1, to a maximum of 20. Your Proficiency Bonus is also doubled for Deception and Performance Checks. Elemental Adept . Your spells ignore Resistance to a damage type of your choice. When you cast spells of that type, you cannot roll a 1.

. Your spells ignore Resistance to a damage type of your choice. When you cast spells of that type, you cannot roll a 1. Moderately Armored . You gain Armor Proficiency with Medium Armor and shields, and your Strength or Dexterity increases by 1, to a maximum of 20.

. You gain Armor Proficiency with Medium Armor and shields, and your Strength or Dexterity increases by 1, to a maximum of 20. Spell Sniper. You learn a cantrip, and the number you need to roll a Critical Hit while attacking is reduced by 1. This effect can stack.

For more information on the classes in Baldur’s Gate 3, consult our overviews on the Barbarian, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Fighter, Monk, Paladin, Ranger, Rogue, Sorcerer, and Wizard classes. If you’re stumped by the choice, consult our guide on what class to start with. Stay ahead of the trend in fashion and beyond with our free weekly Lifestyle Edit newsletter Stay ahead of the trend in fashion and beyond with our free weekly Lifestyle Edit newsletter Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

Lifestyle Edit email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

Jada Pinkett Smith has revealed that she and husband Will Smith have been separated for the last seven years.

The Girls Trip star, 52, shared in a new interview with People published on 11 October that she and the King Richard actor, 55, are “still figuring it out” when it comes to their marriage of 26 years. She explained at the time of the 2022 Academy Awards, when Will slapped Chris Rock, they had been separated for six years.

“We’ve been doing some really heavy-duty work together,” Jada said. “We just got deep love for each other and we are going to figure out what that looks like for us.”

The pair have been married since 1997 and share son Jaden, 25, and daughter Willow, 22. The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air star also has a son Trey, 30, whom he shares with his first wife, Sheree Zampino.

As for her children, Jada praised them for how they’ve helped her grow. “My children, they’re little gurus. They’ve taught me a deep sense of self-acceptance,” she told the outlet.

Jada and Will have often opened up about their relationship over the years, and have had very public ups and downs throughout their marriage. Here’s a timeline of their relationship.

1994: Will and Jada meet on the set of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air

Will and Jada met after she auditioned for the role of Will’s girlfriend on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. While she did not get the part, the pair hit it off - despite Will being married to Sheree Zampino at the time, with who he shares son Trey.

“I had a realisation I wasn’t with the person I was supposed to be with,” he told Jada’s Red Table Talk in 2018. “I was sitting in a [bathroom] stall and I was crying and laughing uncontrollably, and I knew [Jada] was the woman I was supposed to be with.”

Will and Jada in 2000 (Getty)

1995: The pair officially begin dating

It wasn’t until 1995 that Will and Jada began seriously dating after Will finalised his divorce from Zampino.

1997: Will and Jada get engaged and married

Will popped the question to Jada in November 1997 before getting married just one month later in Baltimore.

Jada wasn’t initially sold on the idea of marriage. She told People in 2019: “I never wanted to get married. But my mother was like: ‘You have to get married’ - she’s so old-school - and Will wanted a family. So I said: ‘All right, maybe it’s something I should do.’”

1998: Their first child is born

Jada and Will’s first child together, son Jayden, was born in July 1998.

2000: Their second child was born

Jada and Will welcomed daughter Willow in 2000.

Will and Jada with their son Jayden in 2003 (Getty)

2013: Jada denies open marriage rumours (sort of)

After a quiet decade and a half making movies and raising their children, Jada took to Facebook to address rumours she and Will were in an open relationship.

She wrote: “Here is how I will change my statement... Will and I BOTH can do WHATEVER we want, because we TRUST each other to do so. This does NOT mean we have an open relationship... this means we have a GROWN one.”

2015: Will addresses divorce rumours

Will addresses persistent separation rumours by clarifying the pair were not getting a divorce.

“Under normal circumstances, I don’t usually respond to foolishness. But, so many people have extended [to] me their ‘deepest condolences’ that I figured - ‘What the hell… I can be foolish, too!’” he wrote on Facebook at the time. “So, in the interest of redundant, repetitious, over and over-again-ness… Jada and I are… NOT GETTING A DIVORCE!!!!!!!!!!!!!”

2018: Will revealed that he and Jada don’t refer to themselves as married

In an episode of TIDAL’s Rap Radar podcast, Will said he and Jada “refer to ourselves as life partners, where you get into that space where you realise you are literally with somebody for the rest of your life. There’s no deal breakers. There’s nothing she could do - ever. Nothing that would break our relationship. She has my support till death and it feels so good to get to that space.”

2020: August Alsina claims he had an affair with Jada

August Alsina and Jada were introduced in 2015, but it wasn’t until 2020 that he claimed that he and Jada had dated while she was married and that her and Will’s marriage was open during that time.

Alsina said Will gave him and Jada his “blessing”, adding: “I actually sat down with Will and had a conversation due to the transformation from their marriage to life partnership that they’ve spoken on several times and it not involving romanticism.”

Alsina added he “totally gave myself to that relationship for years of my life and I truly and really, really deeply loved and have a ton of love for her.”

The same day Alsina’s claims surfaced Jada’s reps said they were “absolutely not true”.

Less than two weeks later, Jada and Will appeared on an episode of Jada’s Red Table Talk where Jada confirmed that she did have a relationship with Alsina, saying that she and Will were separated at the time.

“We decided that we were going to separate for a period of time and you go figure out how to make yourself happy and I’ll figure out how to make myself happy,” Jada said at the time.

“From there, as time went on, I got into a different kind of entanglement with August... Yes, it was a relationship absolutely.”

Jada also said that Will didn’t give permission, as the only person who could give her permission was herself.

2021: Jada discusses her and Will’s sex life, Will’s memoir is released

In another episode of Red Table Talk in October 2021, Jada said it “takes work” to maintain a spark in the bedroom.

“It’s hard... the thing Will and I talk about a lot is the journey. We started in this [relationship] at a very young age, 22 years old... I think you expect your partner to know - especially when it comes to sex. It’s like: ‘Well, if you love me, you should know. If you love me, you should read my mind.’ That’s a huge pitfall,” she said at the time.

The next month, Will’s memoir is released which details several issues the couple have had over the years. He wrote they were “suffering the brutal death of our romantic fantasies, the burning away of the idealistic illusion of the perfect marriage and the perfect family. Neither of us wanted a divorce; we knew we loved each other, and some aspects of our union were magical. But the structure of the life that we had established was strangling both of us.”

2022: No infidelity statement and Oscars incident

During an interview on CBS Sunday Morning earlier this month, Will said he and Jada had never accused each other of cheating.

He said: “Never. There’s never been infidelity in our marriage...And we have never surprised one another with anything ever..I have decided that chatter about my life can be of a benefit to people. I think that chatter is the first stage to having a real conversation and being able to truly explore if some of the things in your heart are loving, or poisonous.”

In March 2022, Will slapped Chris Rock at the 94th annual Oscars before he yelled at the comedian to “keep my wife’s name out your f***ing mouth”. It quickly became the most talked-about moment of the evening with the pair initially appearing to laugh off the tense moment.

The altercation came after Rock said: “Jada, I love you. GI Jane 2, can’t wait to see you,” referring to Jada’s shaved head. While accepting the award for Best Actor, Will became teary as said he was a “fierce defender of his family”. Country music couples have serenaded their way into each other’s hearts for years.

Much like the resilient love story of Tim McGraw and Faith Hill or Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood, there's a sweet melody in the lives of several country music stars who have weathered the storms of fame while creating strong bonds in their lasting romances.

Beyond the stage lights, these loving country music couples – or musicians and their long-lasting partners – have proven they’ve kept in tune with one another through the highs and lows of their relationships.

TIM MCGRAW CONFESSES MAKING LOVE TO THIS SONG LED TO 27-YEAR MARRIAGE WITH FAITH HILL

Tim McGraw and Faith Hill

Tim McGraw shared a few secrets about his marriage to his wife of nearly 30 years, Faith Hill.



"I don’t know if there’s a key. We always say we’re 27 years coming up, it’s like 96 in show business," he quipped during an interview with "Entertainment Tonight Canada." "It’s almost like dog years."

Although the country star humbly admitted he doesn’t have the "key" to a successful marriage, he sure knows the way to his wife’s heart after celebrating over two decades together.

To make their marriage work, McGraw confessed he made a certain promise to Hill at the start of their relationship.

"We just made a commitment early on, when we first decided we were getting married and having kids, that we wouldn’t just walk out the door when problems arose," he explained.

McGraw and Hill, both 56, met in 1994 but didn't start dating until 1996. They got married later that year. The couple share three daughters: Gracie, 26; Maggie, 25; and Audrey, 21.

GARTH BROOKS ‘DECLINED’ TRISHA YEARWOOD OFFER TO OFFICIALLY TAKE HIS LAST NAME: ‘TRADITION DOESN’T COUNT HERE'

Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood

Country power couple Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood have been candid about their nearly 20-year union.

The pair married in 2005 and Yearwood became a bonus mom to his three grown daughters from his first marriage.

The "Friends in Low Places" singer previously admitted that he wasn’t always a great husband.

"I sucked at being a husband, I was horrible at it," he told Billboard of his first marriage to Sandy Maul, which ended with a messy divorce in 2000. "I was horrible at being a dad. I had to get my s--- together."

Regarding his marriage to Yearwood, he said, "The person you’re with [does make] a huge difference in your life."

The "She’s in Love With the Boy" songstress told E! News on the ACM Awards red carpet that her relationship with Brooks is "always a first date, you know? It just really is," when asked about their secret for a long-lasting marriage. Brooks and Yearwood have been married for 18 years.

AMY GRANT TALKS 'HEALING JOURNEY' AFTER HEAD INJURY FROM BIKE ACCIDENT AT KENNEDY CENTER HONORS

Amy Grant and Vince Gill

The Queen of Christian Pop Amy Grant and the Grammy Award-winning country artist Vince Gill have found their way into each other’s hearts with their love for music.

Grant has been married to country star Gill since 2000. The two have a daughter named Corrina.

Last July, Grant was hospitalized due to a bike accident and suffered a traumatic head injury.

The "Baby, Baby" singer was knocked unconscious for up to 15 minutes and was forced to postpone her fall concert tour while she recovered.

Grant credited husband Gill with providing her a "grounding" place to heal following the bike accident, where she tumbled to the ground after hitting a pothole.

WATCH: AMY GRANT TALKS "GENTLE" RECOVERY FOLLOWING BIKE ACCIDENT

"He has just been so patient," Grant told Fox News Digital last year at The Kennedy Center Honors. "Vince has a kind of way of grounding the space that we're in even without saying a word. I think early on I said, ‘What if I’m different, what if I'm not the same?' and he said, ‘Hey, every day we wake up a little different, and we love each other, and it’s good.'"

After her recovery, the "El Shaddai" crooner shared the stage with her husband Gill during the Christmas season for several performances. Grant and Gill have been married for 23 years.

CHRIS STAPLETON EXPLAINS HOW HE AND WIFE KEEP ROMANCE ALIVE, ‘OVERCOME OBSTACLES’ TOGETHER

Chris Stapleton and Morgane Stapleton

Chris Stapleton revealed a few tips about his marriage to his wife of 16 years, Morgane Stapleton.

"The key to a successful marriage, I’d say communication," Stapleton, 45, told Fox News Digital at the 2023 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony.

"We’re always working on that… love and kindness and patience. I think you have those things in play, hopefully, you can overcome whatever obstacles."

WATCH: CHRIS STAPLETON ON KEY TO SUCCESSFUL MARRIAGE WITH WIFE OF 16 YEARS

Morgane sings background on 10 of her husband's songs on his album "Higher" and is also a producer on the project. Stapleton’s wife spends every performance with him on stage with a tambourine in hand.

While Stapleton got his big break in the country scene eight years ago with his album "Traveller," he has previously addressed other challenges he has faced . He recently revealed he and his wife started going to therapy together.

Morgane has been the country star’s muse for nearly two decades. The two met while working at neighboring music publishing companies on Music Row. Chris and Morgane tied the knot in October 2007.

The Stapletons share five children , three of them boys under 6.

CHRIS STAPLETON CHOSE TO GET SOBER WITHOUT REHAB: 'I GOT INTO A DRINKING CONTEST WITH MYSELF... AND I LOST'

Martina McBride and John McBride

After more than three decades together, country star Martina McBride and her husband John McBride are still head over heels for one another.

The "Valentine" singer and sound engineer have been married for 35 years. McBride honored her husband earlier this year on their milestone anniversary.

"We made it to 35 years! Thirty. Five. Years. Wow. This guy makes me laugh every day and he’s a great dad to our 3 girls. He is a friend to many. But he’s my best friend. Love you John," she penned on Instagram.

The couple owns Blackbird Studios in Nashville together, opening it in 2002. Since then, they have welcomed several country artists to their recording studio, including McGraw and Hill, Taylor Swift, Dolly Parton, Sheryl Crow and Blake Shelton.

The McBrides share three daughters together: Delaney, Emma and Ava.



DOLLY PARTON REVEALS SECRET TO 56-YEAR MARRIAGE WITH HUSBAND CARL THOMAS DEAN: ‘IT WAS MEANT TO BE’

Dolly Parton and Carl Thomas Dean

Country music icon Dolly Parton knows how to keep the spark alive in her marriage.

The "Jolene" songstress previously got candid about her 56-year marriage to husband and Nashville businessman Carl Thomas Dean.

"I like it when people say, ‘How did it last so long?’ I say, ‘I stay going,'" Parton said during an interview with "ET Canada" last year.

"You know, there’s a lot to be said about that. So we’re not in each other’s face all the time. He’s not in the business, so we have different interests, but yet we have the things we love to do together. So it was meant to be, I think. He was the one I was supposed to have and vice versa."

The sweet couple had been married since 1966. Parton first met Dean when she was 18, and he was 21.

APP USERS CLICK HERE

Like any relationship, they had a few highs and lows, however, the singer-songwriter revealed a good laugh keeps the chemistry alive.

"We both have a warped sense of humor. And I think humor, honestly, is one of the best things when you’re married like that. Even if you have a problem, if you have a great sense of humor, if you say something you can’t take back [you] usually have some crazy way of getting out of it," Parton remarked.

NICOLE KIDMAN, KEITH URBAN OSCARS PDA HEATS UP RED CARPET

Keith Urban and Nicole Kidman

Keith Urban and Hollywood actress Nicole Kidman have a few rules that keep their union strong.

While the couple have been married for 17 years, Urban gave a glimpse into their long-lasting relationship and shared that it is not always easy managing his career with his personal life.

The rule that works for them? "It’s always family first."

CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER

WATCH: KEITH URBAN TALKS OPENING THE 2023 ACM AWARDS AND HIS MARRIAGE WITH NICOLE KIDMAN

"It's balanced, so it means it goes out of balance sometimes, and we just put it back in balance," Urban told Fox News Digital ahead of the 2023 ACM Awards this year. "It's never perfectly in balance, but we get it back on track."

Kidman and Urban, both Australian, met in 2005. Kidman had previously been married to actor Tom Cruise, with whom she adopted two children over the course of their marriage.

The lovebirds are parents to Sunday Rose and Faith Margaret.

CARRIE UNDERWOOD SAYS SHE ‘SWORE’ AS A CHILD SHE WOULD ‘NEVER’ MARRY A HUNTER: ‘NOT IN A MILLION YEARS’

Carrie Underwood and Mike Fisher

Carrie Underwood and Mike Fisher have been going strong for 13 years of marriage.

The "Love Wins" singer and former NHL player previously credited their faith in helping them overcome obstacles in their relationship.

"That's where our faith comes in, I think it gives us a center ground where that's the most important thing in anything," Fisher shared on the "Mike and Carrie: God & Country" digital series.

"And then, your differences, if they're rooted in that, I know your heart, you know my heart, there's always a way and it always is God working in it."

The two tied the knot in 2010 and share two young sons – Isaiah and Jacob.
